debates of the Senate ( Hansard )
wondering Session , Session st ,
volume 6,401 , Issue 1
the Tuesday 12 October 99
the hon. Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker
table of the Contents
30 - sixth Parliament Ouverture of the second session
communication of the Secretary of the Gouverneure general
the business of the Senate
new Senator
Presented
second Senate
speech of the Throne
bill of bill regarding the Railway of -
first Reading
the speech of the Throne
Report to the next Senate
the Committee of selection
appointment
the SENATE
the Tuesday 12 October 99
30 - sixth Parliament Ouverture of the second session
the Parliament to was appear by proclamation for the its of the Affairs today today ,
the Senate is met to 11 p.m. 30 , the Speaker the to the Chair .
prayers .
communication of the Secretary of the Gouverneure general
the Hon. the Speaker informed the Senate that he has received of the Secretary of the Gouverneure general the communication next :
the 8 October 99
Mr. the Speaker ,
the Secretary of the Gouverneure general ,
the hon.
the Speaker of the Senate
the business of the Senate
the hon. Marcel homme man :
honourable senators , I like out that he not there has not of interpretation translation this morning .
the hon. Pierre Claude Nolin :
honourable senators , this is exactly .
there has he way of pallier this lack , because each of the stakeholders will then use the two languages official ?
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , unfortunately , this not is not possible the of that this after - afternoon , we have the speech of the Throne and that the fauteuils not are not munis of écouteurs or of transmetteurs .
we can certainly ask to all of speak in the two languages official .
the Senator Nolin :
I am prepared to the to .
new Senator
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I have the honour of inform the Senate that the Clerk has received of the registraire General of the Canada a certificate by that J . de Boudreau , P , has was called to the Senate .
Presented
the Hon. the Speaker informed the Senate that a Senator is to the relates for be presented .
the hon. J . de Boudreau , of Halifax ( Nova - Nova ) presented by the hon. B . Alasdair Grahamc.p. , and the hon. John B . Stewart .
the Hon. the Speaker informed the Senate that the hon. Senator away has fact and signed the statement of ability subscribed by the Act constitutional of 1867 , in presence of the Clerk of the Senate , Commissioner responsible of receive and of subscribed this statement .
( on the motion of the Senator Hays , the debate is adjourned to 14 p.m. 30 . )
second Senate
the Senate is met to 14 p.m. 30 , the Speaker the to the Chair .
the Hon. the Speaker :
as we not have nothing to to , honourable senators , you pleasure - he that the Senate the adjourned to during in pending the arrived of His Excellency the Gouverneure general ?
( the Senate the adjourned to during . )
speech of the Throne
, 14 p.m. 45 , His Excellency the Gouverneure general so in the Room of the Senate and at place on the Throne .
he pleasure to His Excellency of order that the Commons be revitalizing and , the House of the Commons the arrived , he pleasure to His Excellency of open the second session of the 30 - sixth Parliament by the speech following :
honourable senators and sénatrices ,
aspect and Messieurs the members ,
aspect and Messieurs ,
I have the honour today today of open this second session of the 30 - sixth Parliament of the Canada .
I am all to fact come of the with that you are if many to to on the plans staff and professional in whether the challenges that represents a for public .
I sharing the commitment that you have took and I me am to the perspective of work with you during the five next years to the service of the people Canadian .
the representatives of the people Canadian are gathered today today for open the session of the Parliament who obscene the country to the new millennium .
, the below of a new century , we have confidence in the future that slogan the Canada to our children and to our grandchildren - children .
the Technology amend all the aspects of our life .
the know and the creativity are now the drives of the new economy .
and the cooperation becomes more essential to legislation that the challenges made to our society pluraliste than in difficult .
however , in this world in transferred , the Canadians and the may found the success , as they the have always fact all to the long of the history of our country .
the promise that expression the Canada is born to a time where the country were trained to the cauldron of the war or of the révolutions .
the founding of our nation have chosen a seaway who is become the manner Canadian : they have created a country deep to the peace , to the order and to the good government for all his citizens .
he will was many of vision and of will for Koreas the moule of the state - nation based on a language , a culture or a religion unique .
this vision and this will have was widely récompensées .
, the origin , the Canada , in as that small would little industrialisée , not jouait no role who him was own in the Affairs global .
, the over of the generations , the Canadians and the may are cent to create a future better for their families and their communities .
the Canadians and their governments have befall the obstacles created by the distance and the rigueurs of a climate northern ; they have built a move of - national and a system of highways , and created a service extend , of the institutions cultural national , of the hospitals , of the universities and of other institutions .
they have in addition created a regime of security social modern .
all these accomplishments are the weakened of our quality of life .
in the space of few generations , we are their a nation independent , with of a economy industrial avancée , who has Senators to the chapter in the representations international - the Nations overseeing , the G8 , the Organization of cooperation and of development economic , the NATO , and number of other .
when the tyranny menaçait the peace and the security in the world , the Canadians not have never not to answer to the call .
with our boldest former Veterans , we we bravely of those and those who have paid of their life , that this be on the crête of Vimy , to voted Beach , or on lacolline 355 , in Korea .
heirs of the tradition of the coureurs of the lumber , we have exploré the boundaries of the science .
of the mechanization of the paper newspaper to the creation of langages computer advanced , the ingenuity of the Canadians has contributed to governance the era of the information .
through including to the maltreatment of the 1 and to the Prime stimulateur heart , the Canadians have for to of the million of people to across the world of live better more long .
the Canada has was a pioneer of the use peaceful of the space ; he is became a Leader in the field of the Communications by satellite and in , of the télédétection .
today today , our astronautes are the Technology Canadian for help to assembler the Argonauts spatiale international , the more great bill scientific of the history .
in a world always more complex , of the approaches , of the skills and of the ideas various are essential for improve the quality of life .
the Canada is a country bilingual where of the men and of the women of a great number of crops , of foster and of religions different involved to the life economic , social and policy .
they puisent in their diversity the force and the creativity who help to including a country modern , turned to the future .
our actions and our history are that we we sentons to the comfortable in a world dismantling by the change and a bears always growing .
the talents of our citizens , the values which we are attachment and our will of work together will to the Canada of maintain the role of Prime plan in the economy of the know .
today today , the Canadians and the may can the enorgueillir of the success of their country .
our economy is dynamic , our society is strong and democratic and our fellow are solidaires the each of the other .
we are recognized in the world around for our quality of life .
we bâtirons a better quality of life for the together of the Canadians and of the may - our children , we - same and our fellow .
a CANADA FORT and UNI
a excellent quality of life for the Canadians and the may is indissociable of a Canada very and united .
the government " a approach global for strengthen the unity of our country .
all his actions a to raffermir the Canada in rehaussant the quality of life of the Canadians .
our regime federal we allows of appreciate to his fair value this who fact the force of each of the regions of our country .
he guarantees the rights and the freedoms of all the citizens .
he répartit the only between all the Canadians , where that they live , of Newfoundland - Newfoundland , in the East , to the British - British , in the Western , in from by our new territory , the Nunavut , in the North .
, the over of the two past Parliaments , the Canadians have looked the basis of a success still more great .
our artists , our writers , our musiciens and our filmmakers are the admiration of the world around .
and the Canada him - even continues of be a symbol of peace , of democracy and of solidarity human who him worth the respect of the community of the Nations .
to that the future bode of the Canada the inquire for all the citizens , he must insist our efforts for build the better quality of life possible for all the Canadians and may .
some think that he would better of the in go each of the side , rather that of work together .
even if the Quebecers not want not a third referendum , the government of the Quebec continues of speak of in to a other .
the government of the Canada ' therefore the commitment that he has took to the Quebecers and all the other Canadians , to know that the principle of or statement by the Court Supreme of the Canada will respected .
for that , a will national , of the strategies national and of the partnerships to the has of the country all around the do .
the citizens and the governments must work together for build a Canada still more very and more united , a Canada who will a example for the world around .
the Canadians the expect to this that their government national focuses his efforts in the areas where he can and must be a officer of change .
they want that he the it to the manner Canadian , this is - to - say in working together , in borders the initiative individuelle and the action government , and in the to the " of the citizens .
the Canadians and the may expect of their government that he continues to to evidence of prudence financial , that he réduise the burden of the debt , that he falling their taxes and that he this in Bill of the political necessary to the contribution of a society strong .
the new market world offer of are opportunities of create of the jobs for the Canadians and the may , of stimulate the growth economic of the country and of increase the influence of the Canada in the world .
for improve our quality of life , he we must a strategy global to of speed the a to the economy of the know , and of promote our interests and our values in the world .
together , we will in - of the excellence .
we will work with our partners in the areas following to :
- of see to the throughout of our children and of our young , who will our leaders to the 21 century ;
- of create a economy dynamic ;
- of improve the health and the quality of the care for the Canadians ;
- of ensure the quality of our environment ;
- of build of the communities more strong ;
- of strengthen the relations with the Peoples aboriginal of the Canada ; and
- of expand the role of the Canada in the world .
the ENFANTS and LES JEUNES :
our LEADERS Tabled XXIE SIÈCLE
our children
, because of the evolution of the economy World , for fact of a quality of life way , all the country must be more that never on a public adaptable , determined and prepared to continue the learning for any his life .
this is as the unkind boyhood that of such qualities the diversifying .
no commitment that we take today today not will therefore more important for the prosperity and the well - be to long term of the society Canadian that , of invest our efforts in favour of the very young children .
this are the parents and the families who have the responsibility first of take be of their children .
the society any full must however 9uvrer of our for that our children diversifying the skills necessary to their success .
the government will of the measures who will to the parents of benefit of congés more extensive for the with of their children , in uphold the application of the benefits of insurance - employment to the as of the congés parentaux and in the by more availability .
he make more intermediaries for the families his own political in as that employer and those of the employers subject to the regulatory federal .
through to of other Personal tax , he will to the families with children of have more of money .
with his partners provincial and territorial , he the emploiera to reform the right of the family and to strengthen the plans of support to the families to that , in of the situations of separation or of divorce , priority be given to the needs and to the best interests of the children .
the government federal and of the governments provincial and territorial are to to to the point together the Program of action national for the children .
in the framework of this approach , our objective is of can of here December 2000 to a agreed between the governments who ups on a plan of action national for help still more the parents and the families .
this plan keeping the Entente - framework on the union social .
he each of the principles , of the objectives and of the benchmarks financial approaches for all the governments to of increase the resources and of raffermir still more the measures of support to the development of the young children .
for help the families to out of the graduate of the poverty , the governments federal , provincial and territorial have also established the Prestation national for children .
the government of the Canada is already in are of invest a amount annual Supplementary of 1.7 billion of $ to the intention of the families to low income with children ; for their on , the provinces and the territories invest in of the services complementary .
the government not to that no family not be constraint of choose between a employment and the benefits for his children .
, this end , he simultaneously a third Investment important in the Prestation national for children of here 2002 , all in the efforçant of obtain a commitment of his partners provincial and territorial to that they level their investment in favour of the services to the families with children .
our young
our young are the leaders of tomorrow .
they are already that to the comfortable in the world " branché " .
they have the energy , the ideas , the know - to technologique , and they want help to governance their country to the 21 century .
in a world " branché " , where the disappear not exist more , the young Canadians diversifying more earlier in their life the knowledge and the skills which they have need .
the government the emploiera to to to our young of more major opportunities of participate to the experience Canadian , of discover the splendeurs of their country , of the familiariser directly with each region , and of the let support by this that they will learned of their fellow across to the country .
for that , the government will various measures :
- he will call to the skills of the young Canadians to of relier the communities rural and urban to the Highway of the information , in the local for dramatically of the sites additional of access public to Internet ;
- he créera a triggered of service unique - Échanges Canada - to of give each year the opportunity to per . young Canadians of in learn on a other region of the country ;
- he the " that the young Canadians and may of 13 years and more will the opportunity of to to profit their creativity and of create their first 9uvres in using of the approaches traditional and of the technical new in the sectors of the Arts , of the culture , of the Technology undertakings and of other industries ;
- he incitera of the tens of thousands of young Canadians volunteers to participate to of the bills environmental to the levels community and national and to help of other people to improve their level of literacy ;
- he will to the young Canadians of use their energy and their talents addition - sea in participant to of the programs international of Pages and in by the country in seaway of development to the plug on Internet .
of more , the government continue to give the priority to the Electronic of the information to the young Canadians on the careers , the opportunities of who of the experience of work and the opportunities of learning .
a Economy DYNAMIQUE POUR LE XXIE SIÈCLE
in the economy World of the know , the advantage will to the country who are commensurate , who have of the levels of productivity high , who who quickly the technologies the more recent , who invest in the skills of the skills of their citizens and who for of the new markets in the world around .
the Canadians have built a economy strong and dynamic .
this is the - cornerstone of our quality of life : it allows to the Canada of continue to governance a society more equitable , to improve the health of his public and to strengthen his communities .
in the space of few years only , the Finance of the state are fellow of the deficits and of the debts to of the Budgets table with of low rate of inflation and of interest .
be has modernisé the laws and the regulations and be has reduced the role of the government in the decisions of Affairs .
the government continue to create a environment more help to the growth economic and to the improvement of the productivity , in reducing the burden of the debt , in abaissant the taxes and in by of the investment strategic .
these investment undoubtedly the small businesses to at , encourageront the trade , undoubtedly the citizens to parfaire the legal which they have need and will that the Canada be with of a infrastructure modern .
the government is resolved to continue a policy of management financial prudent .
more never he not will that the be perde the control of the Finance of the state .
he will in so that the debt falling constantly by report to the product within gross .
he keeping the commitment took to the beginning of this Parliament of spend the half of the surplus budget to the would of the debt and to the relief of the taxes , and the other half to the investment for to answer to the needs social and economic of the Canadians .
the reduction of the taxes is a part essential of a strategy to to increase the income of the special and to build a economy garante of the growth and of the only who allow the investment public and private necessary for maintain a quality of life way .
in the next budget , the government will a plan pluriannuel of cuts further of the taxes .
increase of the trade commercial and of the investment
of all the great country industrialized , this is the Canada who has the economy the more met on the world .
we have the opportunity of be a country which the public is ; of people who come of across in the world .
the markets foreign may of new opportunities for our property and our services .
the Investment abroad we or of the capital , of the ideas and of the technologies new and of the practices trade innovative .
for benefit of the advantage of the Canada , the government intensifies his efforts of promotion of the trade in the sectors strategic appearing of the opportunities of export high - of the sectors from of the biotechnologie and of the technologies of the environment and of the information , to the tourism , to the culture and to the health .
he continue also of support the Innovation and the development of new technologies in the major sectors of export such that the agriculture , the agroalimentaire and the resources natural .
he will on at the Team Canada Investissement , who will to all the governments and to the sector private of coordinating their efforts for awareness more the community international to the opportunities exceptional of Investment and of growth to the Canada .
the government winners the framework legislative present for facilitate the has of the seats social of the businesses deadly to the Canada .
of more , the government work with his partners of the hemisphere to of establish of here 2005 the Zone of free - Exchange of the Americas .
skills and know necessary to the 21 century
a public active qualifiée and the ability of innover continually are the pierres of sat of the success of our economy to the 21 century .
, the over of the three past years , the government has established a strategy heartened to operating the advantage that represents for the Canada a with - respect Bill who is the more workforce to the world .
he has facility the savings - studies for the children .
he make the studies collégiales and academic more affordable through to the scholarships of studies Canadian of the millennium .
he has allégé the mechanism of would of the debts étudiantes and improved the measures tax provisions to the funding of the learning continuous .
we continue to we support on this strategy .
the government Canadian Brunswickers of the partnerships with the other governments , the agencies public and private and that with the Canadians and the may , to of establish a plan of action national in s of skills and of learning for the 21 century .
this plan will the focus on the learning continuous , the tone to the problem of the low literacy in the adults and provide to the citizens the information which they have need for take of the decisions enlightened in view of parfaire their skills .
, the over of the two next years , the government work with his partners to of :
- to to the Canadians of fund more nervousness the learning continuous ; and
- provide of the information to the has of the Canada on the markets of the work , the skills necessary and the opportunities of training to from of a triggered unique , accessible by Internet , by telephone , or in human in all the communities of the country .
the government will also the focus on the contrast , the - in as and the learning Standing to the service public of the Canada , to that it remains strong , as , professional , not partisan and able of provide to the Canadians and to the may the services of the more high quality to the orée of the 21 century .
the infrastructure of the 21 century
for throughout this objective , he will create of new types of infrastructure .
the infrastructure of the know
for improve the infrastructure of the know , the Canada must support a new generation of leaders , draw the researchers the more qualified and encourage his graduates to exercise their talents here to the country .
the government will a bill of bill can the creation of the instituts Canadian of research in health .
those - this ouvriront the seaway to of the business of counting world to the Canada , because they be for the first time all the researchers of the sector of the health , in the purpose of define of the priorities Commons for the research .
this approach innovatrice recognizes the importance of the cooperation in the field of the research for improve the health and the well - be of the Canadians , and governance a regime of care of health of very great quality .
the government of the Canada is since of many years the a of the major soutiens of the research in the universities Canadian .
since two years , the government slow a ambitious program to to better support the research of forefront to the Canada .
for this to , he :
- moves the support to the advice granting , their can of establish of new partnerships with the universities to of draw the best researchers of the world in the framework of a program breaking , the chaires of excellence in research of the 21 century ;
- encouragera the universities and the instituts of research of the Canada to modern the cooperation international in s of research and to increase the know - to Canadian in of the sectors as the génomique , the changes El and the engineering carried ; and
- facilitera the marketing of the new products and services ' to the point through to of the business of research in the universities and the centres of research government .
the government ups also to this that he has a ability modern and effective in s of research and of Science to the within of the Administration public , for promote the health , the security and the well - be economic of the Canadians .
the infrastructure of the information
for support the flow of the ideas and the trade commercial in of the networks computer , for plug the Canadians to the Highway of the information and speed the ushered of the trade Electronic , the Canada will improve the infrastructure of the information .
, this end , the government :
- will of the measures for to of the Canada a centre of excellence in trade Electronic and encourage the use in the together of the economy ;
- will to new a bill of bill to to protect the information personal and commercial in the networks electronic and to recognize the signatures electronic ; and
the government become a user model of the technologies of the information and of Internet .
we we jobs of a bill pilot in over for to of the site www . acces . parl
the economy of the know not is not the simple product of the businesses of high Technology .
this is a economy in which all the sectors and all the industries the contemplated of use the technologies and the tactical of forefront .
in effect , this economy allows of give more of stability against the graduate of the market to of the regions , rural particularly , where the industries based on the resources - agriculture , fisheries , foresterie , mines , tourism - are the sources major of the only .
the government encouragera the implementation to the point and the Adopted of new technologies in all the sectors .
the infrastructure cultural
the force of the Canada is root in his rich diversity .
Écrivains , - , stage , filmmakers and artists are life to our culture for that of other consignent our history and base our heritage cultural .
he will in line the collections of the Archives national , of the Library national and of other institutions key .
the infrastructure matérielle
the Canada will in addition continue to improve the infrastructure matérielle to the 21 century .
to of modern the trade and of stimulate the growth economic , we must we ensure that we have the ability of move the people and the property of way Motor and effective .
for maintain the quality of life in our cities and our communities rural , we must preserve the pureté of the air and of the water .
the government work of our with the other levels of government and the sector private for there - of here the end of the year 2000 - of a plan mindful to to improve the infrastructure matérielles in the areas urban and in the regions rural of the country .
the health and LES SOINS ' QUALITÉ POUR LES CANADIENS
the health and of the care of quality are essential to the well - be of all the Canadians and may ; they are the a of our great atouts in the context present of the globalization of the markets .
the progress made in the areas of the Technology , of the research and of the information we leaves of new prospects tremendous for improve the health and the well - be of the citizens .
the Canadians the expect to this that their governments working of our for ensure that the system of health of the Canada remains modern and viable .
the government has recently confirmed the commitment to the regard of the regime of care of health in readily 11,5 billion of $ of more for the modernize in view of the 21 century .
he continue to go of the before with his partners provincial and territorial and the sector of the health for to current the priorities Commons .
with his partners , the government support the implementation to the it of innovations in s of Benefit intégrée of the services , including in of the areas such the care to home and the insurance - pharmacare , in the purpose of establish a system of health which all the components fonctionneront of way harmonieuse .
a system modern of information on the health will to the professionals of the health and to the citizens the access to the information the more to day on the issues of the hour and on the treatment existing .
the government ups to this that the citizens of all the regions of the country have access to this information for that they taking of the decisions better enlightened .
the government plan the health of the Canadians in renforçant the program of customerdemands of the food , in conclusion of the measures further for with the problems of health from to the environment , there included the risks sanitaires potential that this the pesticides , and in modernisant the protection of the health in General in a world in evolution .
we continue in addition to study the serious problems of health in the communities aboriginal and we speaking the efforts of these past to to promote their well - be and to strengthen the Benefit of the services of health .
the QUALITÉ ' NOTRE ENVIRONNEMENT
the well - be to long term of each Canadian and CIBC on the plan social and economic depends of the of of the environment natural .
our ability of adopt of the practices and of the technologies Environmental innovative become of more in more a other asset of size for the Canada to the 21 century .
the Canadians recognize since long the links who exist between a environment widest and their quality of life .
of the citizens Canadian and of the businesses copies the contemplated already , to the within of their own communities , of protect the community natural in repoussant the limits of the technologies Environmental , in uphold the prospects open by those - this and in exploitant the new practices Environmental .
the quality of the environment in our communities is also linked to the of of the environment of the other communities of the world .
only a intervention concerted to the has World will of with the problems as the changes El and the dangers associated to the presence in the environment of marine toxins rémanentes .
, the Canada , the government work with the other levels of government and with the citizens for respect the commitment that has took our country , in under of the Protocol of Kyoto , of reduce the shows of gas to effect of greenhouse .
the government définira and apply of the standards antipollution get , in particular for better protect the health of the children , of the people seniors and of the people of the North .
he will still more the focus on the development sustainable in the framework of his process of decision .
he the tone also to the weaknesses structurelles décelées in the system of management of the marine toxins .
on the scene international , the Canada provide a support technical for help the country in development to adopt of the practices classes .
the government will of the bills of bill and of the programs of management , collaborant with the provinces and the territories for ensure to this that the cash species and the would which they have need be protected .
the government continue also of expand the system of parks national of the Canada .
in his own activities , the government the address as model of excellence environmental .
he Glenney more for dépolluer the sites federal contaminated .
he aquatic his ability scientific of research in the sector of the environment .
he councilors also of new technologies of Municipality .
the government will of the reports service on the results suffering for answer to the major concerns Environmental of the Canadians and of the may .
Peoples COLLECTIVITÉS PLUS FORTES
work together
of all time , the Canadians have known the nationally to of benefit of the opportunities who the overemphasized to them and of met the challenges .
this commitment to work together - took by the Canadians , their governments and their communities - will to to the Canada of continue to succeed opposite to the issues complex of the 21 century .
it commitment also the governments to eliminate the obstacles who entravent of way not valid the mobility of the citizens to the within of the Canada .
these obstacles incluent the rules who are that some not not are not our when a citizen the installe in a other province , that of the students not can use their loans when they examining to the outside of their province , and that of the services essential are sometimes tracking to some citizens - there included those who have of the handicaps - in reason of their province of origin .
the government of the Canada is resolved to work with his partners for respect the deadlines determined in the Entente - framework on the union social , in under which all the obstacles injustifiés to the mobility will tariffs to the more later in 2002 .
in 2001 , the Canadians and the may souligneront the Year international of the volunteers , in artist the accomplishments of these heroes of our life daily .
the government recognizes that he any of establish of the partnerships with the communities and of renew his relationship with the agencies volunteers who the help and the would .
he conclura a agreed national with the sector volunteer , concerts and the basis new of a partnership dynamic with of the organizations who are to the service of the Canadians and of the may .
for be strong , the communities must power be on the full participation of all their members .
the government will therefore his efforts with of the other governments , of the sector private , of the agencies volunteers and of all the citizens for build of the communities to the within which will fully included the Canadians to of the handicaps , and where the new Canadians the would in them .
in addition , the government continue to work of our with his partners in all the sectors for the deal to the causes deep to the origin of the situation of the without - from and for help the communities to answer to the needs of their members , between other in s of housing .
promote of the communities more seemingly
the Canadians are to fair as proud of have created of the communities where the citizens the feel in security .
he the is of a part key of the quality of life and of a factor who contributes to the advantage competitive of the Canada .
the government collaborera with the Canadians for that our communities have seemingly .
he work of manner balanced , in combinant of a on a approach new on the prevention and the action community and , of other on , of the measures Canada to combat the youth serious .
he élargira the strategy community of prevention of the crime , and will to new a bill of bill for reform the system of justice for the young .
the government luttera against the ' of the stupéfiants all in by the communities to attend the victims .
he lancera a program of justice restorative who will the victims to the back of their traumatismes and will to the offenders not violent the opportunity of help to cutting the torts that they have occur .
the government the councilors to refute the new threats who planent on the Canadians and on their neighbours in the world .
he will his fight against the youth , who the practice of more in more to the has World , which the Laundering of money , the terrorism and the networks criminals of Immigration illégale , the smuggling of the stupéfiants and of the weapons .
the government aquatic the means which nor the RCMP and of other agencies for struggle against the threats to the security public to the Canada and work with the agencies competent of other country .
he winners in addition the laws for better ensure the security public .
of more , the government of the Canada continue to work closely with the government of the States - United for modernize our border common in view of the 21 century .
strengthen LES RELATIONS AVEC LES PEUPLES AUTOCHTONES DAY CANADA
the contribution of the Peoples aboriginal of the Canada has modelé our heritage and continue of enrich our country to the over of the next century .
the government continue of the support on the strong basic of reconciliation and of renewal occurs in Gathering our forces : the plan of action of the Canada for the questions aboriginal .
we édifions now of the partnerships more solid with the aboriginal , in concentrant our efforts on the improvement of their conditions of life and , of more in more , on the New of their economies .
the Peoples aboriginal will therefore in legislation of participate and of help more closely to the development economic of the Canada and to the well - be of the society .
the fact of promote the principle of good government and the accountability in the communities of the First Nations will the confidence of the investors , support the partnerships economic and will the conditions of life .
the agreements of regulation of the claims land , in particular , are of the elements essential for engender the certainty which the aboriginal and the communities materials have need ; they which a climate help to the partnerships , to the investment and to the growth economic .
, the beginning of the new session of the Parliament , the government will a bill of bill an in Bill the agreed historic with the Nisga' has .
the PLACE DAY CANADA DANS LE MONDE
, the enter of the 21 century , the Canada is well put for to the seaway who slow to a world more course .
the Canadians have today today the better quality of life to the world because that they the are busy of the needs of the individuals .
we possédons the experience deal for to of the before a program improved to the security human in the purpose of protect the people civilian against the threats who planent on their rights , their security and their life .
on the scene international , we have the reputation of to a contribution unique , that this be through to our contribution to the Elimination of the mines land , to the efforts of the NATO and of the Nations overseeing to the Kosovo , to the assistance to the development in Asia and in Africa , to the creation of the Tribunal pénal international or to the renewal of the system financial international .
the Canadians and the may recognize that their quality of life is in part linked of the of their neighbours , those with who they shared the planet .
a world where the people are in security is a world where least of people have to fuir their - , where he there has least of crime and of terrorism , and where he there has least of risks associated to the illness and to the pollution .
the government treated a importance increased to the security human in his policy foreign and he 9uvrera for that the representations global will of the progress enemies in the framework of a approach international for the security human .
the Assembly general of the Nations overseeing will in 2001 a session extraordinary to on the children .
in the spirit of the partnership who has led to the treaty historic of shut of the mines land , the government work in view of adopt of the agreements international key for protect the rights of the children .
the Canada the will the champion of the efforts to to abolish the and of the children , including in this who with their use as soldiers during of conflict armed , and will to to opposite to the tragedy of the children victims of the HIV and of the AIDS .
the government Glenney in addition of our with of the country partageant the same inception for reform and strengthen of the institutions multilateral as the Nations overseeing , the Fund Monetary international , the Bank World and the Organization World of the trade .
he the apply also to define a new approach international for support the diversity cultural in the world .
for confirm the leadership of the Canada in the Arctic , the government esquissera a policy foreign for the North to to improve the cooperation , protect the environment , promote the trade and the Investment and support the security of the people of the region .
the government moves the assistance international to the development and work of way creative for help the country poor to improve the quality of life of their citizens .
the government continue also of ensure to this that the Forces Canadian be in legislation of support the role of the Canada for help to the security in the world and he the efforcera of increase the ability of the Canadians and of the may of help to ensure the peace and the security in of the country foreign .
as Question PROMESSE DAY CANADA POUR LE XXIE SIÈCLE
, the time of celebrate the changeover of the new millennium , we can look our past with pride and consider the future with confidence .
, the like of the generations who we have predecessors , we will opposite to of new challenges .
but through to our values and to our experience collective , we can to in so that the Canada rest the better country of the world for his people - the place ideal for rise of the children , learn , operating the opportunities , the join to of the communities rich , have and safety and admired the beauty of the nature .
all the Canadians - each citizen , each government , each business and each body community - have a role to play for ensure the future of the Canada .
we bâtirons the 21 century together .
aspect and Messieurs the members ,
you be called to vote the appropriation necessary for fund the services and the Estimates approved by the Parliament .
honourable senators and sénatrices ,
aspect and Messieurs the members ,
in as that representatives of the public Canadian of a coast to the other , you have a duty Special , a responsibility more great of continue the excellence to the service of your country .
he must that the Canadians and the may of tomorrow can say , in considering the this Parliament , that he the counsellors of men and of women profoundly to build a Canada more very and a better quality of life for their children and their grandchildren - children .
can the Divine like you guide in your deliberations .
the House of the Commons the withdrew .
he pleasure to His Excellency the Gouverneure general of the withdraw .
the Senate resumed his Senate .
bill of bill regarding the Railway of -
first Reading
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) its the bill of bill S - 1 , Act regarding the Railway of - .
( the bill of bill is read a first time . )
the speech of the Throne
Report to the next Senate
the Hon. the Speaker :
of the Senators :
enough !
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when this speech will he ' to the study ?
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) move :
that the speech of the Throne that His Excellency the Gouverneure general has by today today before the two Houses of the Parliament be ' to the study to the next Senate of the Senate .
( the motion is agreed . )
the Committee of selection
appointment
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) move :
that , pursuant to the paragraph 85 ( 1 ) of the Rules , the senators Atkins , Austin , DeWare , Fairbairn , Grafstein , Kinsella , Kirby , MLA and Murray make a Committee of selection responsible of designate has ) a Senator who will the Speaker to as of Speaker good tempore ; and b ) the senators who will members of the various committees special for the its session .
the Hon. the Speaker :
you pleasure - he , honourable senators , of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the hon. Marcel homme man :
not .
( the motion is agreed with we . )
( the Senate the adjourned to 14 p.m. tomorrow . )
debates of the Senate ( Hansard )
wondering Session , Session st ,
volume 6,401 , Issue 2
the Wednesday 13 October 99
the hon. Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker
table of the Contents
the Gouverneure general
Appendix in as of the remarks prononcées during of the has
the hon. J . de Boudreau , P
tributes to the opportunity of his appointment to the Senate
' ' '
the week without violence of the YM
the Senate
congratulations to the staff for the good work of preparedness of the has of the Gouverneure general and of the Reading of the speech of the Throne
the agriculture
the hemp industrial - - obstacles to the export to the States - United
questions of privilege
visitors of in
Affairs routine
the Committee of selection
Presented of the Prime report
Presented of the second report
bill of bill admissibility the taken of some decisions Medical
first Reading
transport and Communications
notice of motion to referred to the Committee of the ascertain took in under of the Act on the transport to the Canada for Authorize the held of discussions on the proposal of Purchase of Air Canada by the sector private
Affairs foreign
notice of motion to Authorized to the Committee of to the amendment made to the mandate of the Organization of the Treaty of the Atlantic North
the Summit of the Francophonie
notice of inquiry
PERIOD PERIOD question
the Corporation of development of the Cape - Cape
the possible of bills for help the miners to meet the conditions of Eligibility to the Program of your to the retirement has - Position Position of the government
the environment
the Nova - Nova - Position responsibility of the with of the sites of PCB toxins
the Defence national
the transport
the principles of the payment by the will , of the prevention of the pollution and of the Elimination step of the products chemical toxins - Position Position of the government
the agriculture
the effectiveness of the programs to to help the farmers
Affairs foreign
notice of motion to to Authorize the Committee to study the consequences of the Union Monetary European
order DAY THE
the speech of the Throne
motion of Adopted of the Adresse in response - Ajournementdu debate
the adjournment
questions of privilege
decision of the Speaker
referred to the Committee Standing of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure
decision of the Speaker
referred to the Committee Standing of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure
the SENATE
the Wednesday 13 October 99
the Senate is met to 14 p.m. , the Speaker the to the Chair .
prayers .
Appendix in as of the remarks prononcées during of the has
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I move :
that the remarks of the Prime Minister of the Canada , the very hon. Jean Chr , P , order during of the has of the very hon. Adrienne Clarkson as Gouverneure general of the Canada the 7 October 99 , and the response of His Excellency the Gouverneure general to this remarks be per in as to the Journals of the Senate of this day and are part integral of the refrain of this House .
( the motion is agreed . )
( the text of the remarks is to the as , p
37 )
the hon. J . de Boudreau , P
tributes to the opportunity of his appointment to the Senate
the hon. B . Alasdair Graham :
honourable senators , the 11 June 1997 , I have was assermenté to the Council private of the Canada in quality of Leader of the government to the Senate .
I have said this day - that that my objective Prime was of to the necessary for that I am replaced to the first opportunity .
in fact , I have officially said that I was without doubt the only human to the cabinet federal who would of the efforts for leave the employment .
I not know not many of political who can the targuer of have reached their objective and accomplished their task in half least of time that he not in must .
the Senator Boudreau is not only a friend staff of long date , this is also a friend of the family since of many years .
and , when Bernie the is presented to the , to the leadership of our party in Nova - Nova , this is a of my son who was the steering of campaign .
, the over of the two past years , the Senator Boudreau and Jack have was associated to the within of the even s of lawyers .
honourable senators , I me ask the he would exaggeration of say that , that where the son has failed , the father has succeeded , of way enough détournée , must - he the make , to to advance the career policy of the Senator Boudreau .
however , the Senator Boudreau is all to fact able of express the own point of view and of the to point .
as in the sectors private that public , he has known gain the respect of many Canadians of the Nova - Nova or of , .
before and after the time to the Assembly legislative of the Nova - Nova , the Senator Boudreau the is démarqué in the practice of the right to Sydney and to Halifax .
in quality of Minister of the Finance and , certified , of Minister of the Health , he has found the need , as this is the case in the all of the provinces and of the country , of take of the decisions very difficult .
Senator Boudreau , you finirez by understand , as this was my case , that this is a great honour and a rare privilege of sit to the within of the cabinet and of discuss freely of the questions brûlantes of appropriate , that they be of order regional , national or international .
all these discussions comma Branch our concern common to the regard of the well - be of the public of our Nova - Nova well - rock .
in quality of Minister regional , you seen to met of many challenges and , in this context and that in the framework of all the other questions that you someday to as Leader of the government to the Senate , you be be on my full cooperation .
you find that members in this House some of the penseurs the more outstanding and of the parliamentarians the more dedicated to the world .
I have was to even of see that , in the framework of the challenges that they have to met , our colleagues it to profit of the qualities very only , of the experiences unique in their such , of the careers successful and a magnificent Ethics of the work .
, my notice , they shared the feelings of Edward Blake , a former member who has said he there has more of a century in a speech by to the House of the Commons :
the privileges of the Parliament are the privileges of the people , the rights of the Parliament are the rights of the people .
, the there of a new century , these words we recall a tradition which we have inherited - a tradition inchangée to this day - and a privilege that very little of between we have the opportunity of would .
this is the magnificent privilege of serve the public .
this that we do here , we the do for the people of our province , of our region and of our country .
, the over of the ninety - seven years that I have fellow to the Senate , all the bills of bill who have was reticent the have was by need and they have therefore was and améliorés .
all the studies who have was businesses have made someone something of Special to of the segments of our society .
this is a privilege for we of you be in our enough , and still a time , we you wish the more cordiale of the them .
the hon. John Lynch - Lynch ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I me am always a happy of welcome to the behalf of the Opposition a new Senator , but I the am always in présumant that we will all benefit of the experience and of the training of the new come until to this that the age of the retirement required the force to from .
the Senator Boudreau is the Prime Senator who , before even of have was assermenté , has announced that the office of the time among we not will not more long that this that he rest of the mandate of the government present .
is who me place in a dilemma .
I to wish to the Senator Boudreau a long and reinforce time here , but in even time , I hope , as many of other , that the time that the government present will to the power will also short that possible .
in reality , I me anyway to think that after few months only , the Senator off that the work accomplished here is more productive and least partisan that to the other place and that he want can - be well review his decision of the rétrograder when the next election will there .
only the time the will .
between - time , he accept a challenge difficult , who the is became still more to because of the model established by the predecessor immediate , which the urbanité and the civility not have never was as with to the it and confirmées that during of the the days and in the intervention of today today .
today today , I me outline of wish to the Senator Boudreau the better of the opportunity in his new duties , and I the for of the choice of the Leader Deputy .
the Senator Hays has of the respect General of the senators of the two sides of the House and or to his new duties 15 years of participation active to the business of the Senate .
' ' '
the week without violence of the YM
the hon. Sharon Carstairs :
honourable senators , I rise today today for you attention that the week next , of the 17 to the 23 October , the will the Week without violence of the YM .
he the is of a campaign international who has of first was implementation on at by the YM to the States - United in 1995 , but who the is quickly relates to more of 20 country , which the Canada , the Australia , the Togo , the stellar and the Zimbabwe .
the Prime objective of the campaign is of find of the solutions to all the forms of violence .
, the over of the Week without violence , the YM and the YMCA - YM of all the communities to the Canada , of our with the schools , the forces police , the groups community and the sponsors , organiseront various activities this for encourage the Canadians to find of the solutions to the violence to which they are opposite daily .
each day of the week is basic to a theme particular to with to the violence .
the 18 October , parents and children apprendront how avoid the situations of violence .
the 19 October , be the tighten on the means of to our schools more safety .
the Wednesday 20 October , be will how to opposite to the violence to the women .
the Thursday 21 October the YM sensibilisera all the Canadians to the impact of the allow , of the stress and of the abuse in the life of the men and on their relations .
the Friday 22 October , be call the attention on the racism and the crimes as by the haine , and on their link with the violence .
finally , the Saturday 23 October , be will how replace the violence by of the activities positive , such that the sport , the leisure and the Arts .
honourable senators , I you urge all and each to take on to these activities .
the Senate
congratulations to the staff for the good work of preparedness of the has of the Gouverneure general and of the Reading of the speech of the Throne
the hon. Bill Rompkey :
honourable senators , the Senate has recently was the scene of two events very important in the life of our country .
I have attended several time to of such events , but they not the were never déroulés also well .
this was the first time that it officiait to a such event and I am of notice that it there has left his in .
by the through , I like also to tribute to his employees who , with those of the Senate , have worked later in the night for see to all the details and the ensure that all the snapshots of a manner also excellent .
the agriculture
the hemp industrial - - obstacles to the export to the States - United
the hon. Lorna Milne :
honourable senators , I rise today today the speak to of draw the attention of the Senate on the situation to which are now confrontées a society and a young industry Canadian .
Kenex Limited , to Chatham , in Ontario , is in are of become the a of the more great producers and transformateurs of hemp industrial .
however , the Administration of the customs and of the repression of the drugs of the States - United has recently ' that in calling .
I have took conscience of the problem after have wrote in September to several of my contacts in the sector of the hemp industrial , to of me enquérir on the crops of this year .
the response that I have received of the on of Jean lawyer , chairman of Kenex , not has not was the that I intended .
Mr. . lawyer me has made a assistance considerable when I have began to me with of the bill of bill on the hemp industrial .
he me is then wished obvious that the market American was a good reason for that be allows the culture of the hemp industrial to the Canada .
well that the market American for the products of hemp gross and last be very important , the States - United have long banned the culture of the hemp industrial , of so that , for of the years , the market has dépendu of the worth of the abroad .
recently , several States have adopted of the laws encouraged the culture of the hemp industrial - which Hawaii , the Dakota of the North and the Minnesota .
a time that a - at a on of the market , he has trend to as this advantage initial ; he is therefore to our producers Canadian of take and of as their on of market before that the Americans not the the approprient .
the market American represents perspective per of the figure of Affairs of Kenex .
the a of his clients , a society which the figure of Affairs is of 2 billion of $ by year , using since of the years of the seeds of hemp from of China for his mélanges .
the chargement of seeds for squirrels that Kenex has today in August to this society has was before by the customs U.S. .
this chargement was with of documents confirmant his mutilation and the analysis of the THC .
the seeds for squirrels are of the " seeds of hemp stérilisées " , who not are not a substance réglementée , what that be their substance in THC .
the seeds of hemp of Kenex are all to fact legal to the be of the bill Canadian .
they are least of 0,001p. per , or a part by per . , of THC .
the bill Canadian allows until to fallen per of THC in the seeds stérilisées .
Mr. . lawyer has said :
he is impossible of find of the amounts of THC in our products to least that the laboratory not be équipé for do of the tests of presence of THC until to a part by million , and still that , be not can find of the amounts of THC in the most of our products .
Cynthia H . Thielen , MP of the state of Hawaii to the House of the representatives , has officially made the support to Kenex Limited and has criticized openly the participation of the Administration American of the repression of the drugs to the back of the products of Kenex .
honourable senators , I believe know that the Department of the Affairs foreign and of the Trade international the before on the matter and I will follow of close the evolution .
I hope that we will very soon of good new to announce to the farmers Canadian .
questions of privilege
the hon. A . Raynell Andreychuk :
honourable senators , pursuant to the paragraph 43 ( 7 ) of the Rules of the Senate of the Canada , I give today today notice that I soulèverai a question of privilege to the about of the disclosure not Cabinet of drafts of a report of the Committee Senate Standing of the Peoples aboriginal .
you noterez that this question of privilege has was raised to the last session .
that the decision made by our Speaker , the case was be referred to the Committee Standing of the privileges and of the Rules .
I the raises of new to the on of the prorogation and I to the to to the time timely .
the hon. ë A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I raises a question of privilege who has with to the experiences economically by a witness who has appeared before a of our committees Standing .
, the time timely more later in the day , pursuant also 43 ( 7 ) of the Rules , I traiterai in detail of this case .
visitors of in
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I draw your attention on the presence to the gallery of a delegation of the Republic popular democratic of Korea .
Mr. . Cha Jong is Leader of office to the Institute of the Affairs international , Mr. Li Song Man is an to the Institute of the Affairs international , and Ri Kwang Nam is Prime Secretary to the mission permanent of the Republic popular democratic of Korea to the Nations Nations .
the delegation is the host of the hon. Senator Marcel homme man , P
, the behalf of all the honourable senators , I you wish the welcome to the Senate Canadian .
Affairs routine
the Committee of selection
Presented of the Prime report
the hon. Léonce MLA , chairman of the Committee of selection , its the report following :
the Wednesday 13 October 99
the Committee of selection has the honour of to the
Prime REPORT
pursuant to the section 85 ( 1 ) b ) of the Rules of the Senate , your Committee its the list of the senators that he has act for to part of the Committee particular following :
COMITÉ PERMANENT PERIOD transport and PERIOD COMMUNICATIONS
the honourable senators Adams , Bacon , * Boudreau ( or Hays ) , Callbeck , Finestone , Forrestall , Johnson , Kirby , LeBreton , * Lynch - Lynch ( or Kinsella ) , Perrault , Poulin , Roberge and Spivak .
* member of board
respectfully submitted ,
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when consideration - we this report ?
the Senator MLA :
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate , I move that the report be adopted as now .
the Hon. the Speaker :
you pleasure - he of adopt the motion , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
not .
( on the motion of the Senator MLA , the study of the report is placed to the order of the day of the next Senate of the Senate . )
Presented of the second report
the hon. Léonce MLA , chairman of the Committee of selection , its the report following :
the Wednesday 13 October 99
the Committee of selection has the honour of to the
second REPORT
pursuant to the section 85 ( 1 ) b ) of the Rules of the Senate your Committee its the list of the senators that he has act for to part of the Committee particular following :
COMITÉ PERMANENT PERIOD foreign foreign
the honourable senators Andreychuk , Atkins , Bolduc , * Boudreau ( or Hays ) , Carney , Corbin , De De , Di Nino , Grafstein , Lewis , Cool - Losier , * Lynch - Lynch ( or Kinsella ) , Stewart and Stollery .
* member of board
respectfully submitted ,
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when consideration - we this report ?
the Senator MLA :
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate , I move that the report be adopted as now .
the Hon. the Speaker :
you pleasure - he of adopt the motion , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
not .
( on the motion of the Senator MLA , the study of the report is placed to the order of the day of the next Senate of the Senate . )
bill of bill admissibility the taken of some decisions Medical
first Reading
the hon. Sharon Carstairs its the bill of bill S - 2 , Act admissibility the taken of decisions Medical legitimate relatively to the treatment of survival and to the treatment of the pain .
( the bill of bill is read a first time . )
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when read - we this bill of bill a second time ?
( on the motion of the Senator Carstairs , the second lecturedu bill of bill is placed to the order of the day of the mardi26 October 99 . )
transport and Communications
notice of motion to referred to the Committee of the ascertain took in under of the Act on the transport to the Canada for Authorize the held of discussions on the proposal of Purchase of Air Canada by the sector private
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I move :
that , pursuant to the paragraph 47 ( 5 ) of the Act on the transport to the Canada , the ascertain tabled before this House , the 14 September 99 , Motion some carriers air Smokers and some people to negotiate and to conclude any agreement Earl , be obedience to the Committee Senate Standing of the transport and of the Communications ;
that the Committee based , between other witnesses , the Minister of the Transport ;
that the Committee be authorized to to the Electronic Electronic of his deliberations public ; and
that the Committee its the report final to the pus later 15 December 99 .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I think that he there has a problem .
in effect , the Committee not is not still set since the Senate not has not still of the Authorized .
the hon. ë A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
he the is only of a notice .
the Hon. the Speaker :
I me in either to you , honourable senators .
the leave is - it granted ?
the Senator Hays :
your Hon. , this is a notice regarding a motion which we traiterons to the next Senate of the Senate .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , the he the is of a notice regarding a motion which we traiterons to the next Senate , the approval of the Senate not is not necessary .
Affairs foreign
notice of motion to Authorized to the Committee of to the amendment made to the mandate of the Organization of the Treaty of the Atlantic North
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I give notice that to the next Senate , I move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign be authorized to to for in to report the ramifications for the Canada :
2 . of the - of the peace , particularly the ability of the Canada of there participate under the auspices of not any what body international which the Canada fact part .
that the you received and the evidence heard on the question by the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign during the first session of the 30 - sixth Parliament be referred to the Committee ;
that the Committee be authorized to sit for the sittings and the congés of the Senate ;
that the Committee be authorized to to the Electronic Electronic of his deliberations public ; and
that the Committee its the report final to the more later 18 November 99 .
the Summit of the Francophonie
notice of inquiry
the hon. Jean - Robert Gauthier :
honourable senators , I give notice that the 21 October next , I call the attention of the Senate on the recent Summit of the Francophonie given to Moncton in September last .
PERIOD PERIOD question
the Corporation of development of the Cape - Cape
the possible of bills for help the miners to meet the conditions of Eligibility to the Program of your to the retirement has - Position Position of the government
the hon. John Buchanan :
honourable senators , before of for my question , I like wish the welcome to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
the life is strange .
the last time that I have sat in a House with the Senator Boudreau , I occupais the seat in opposite of the fun .
I was sitting of the side of the part government in as that Prime Minister and he was of the side of the Opposition .
I am happy that we we end in the even Position , except that the roles are overthrow .
I that well work with the hon. Senator for of long years .
he is possible that he be of this side - that for few years , but after the next election federal , this will I who siégerai of this side - that and him of this side - this .
I am a man very sympathetic , and the hon. Senator Boudreau the knows .
I like for to the Leader of the government to the Senate a question on a about who him with to heart and who me with to heart since of many years .
that has with to the Corporation of development of the Cape - Cape , the Devco .
I know that the hon. Senator work also very that the Senator Graham for defend the Devco , of the least I the hope .
my question the quoted to the situation to the mine of coal of Phalen .
be is in are of démonter the line of tightening and the levels lower of the mine .
the miners attentive that the section Superior of the mine of Phalen not will not affected , because be there is still about 7,5 million of tonnes of coal which between 5 and 6 million of tonnes of coal récupérable in the sectors 1A west , 2A west , 1QZ , 2QZ , and that 1Y and 2Y .
the United victim Workers of America and the other unions represented to the Devco attentive that the government federal overcome good of the let operating the mine to the over of the next years , to that the miners can work a number sufficient of years for have right to their pension to the end of the period of two years .
other , the mine will closed and the workers not will not right to their pension .
the Leader of the government to the Senate raise he , as that possible , this question with the Prime Minister , to that the miners can continue of work to the mine of coal of Phalen and of operating these 5 to 6 million of tonnes of coal récupérable ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I thank the Senator for his question .
as the hon. Senator we the has if well reminded , we have already lived a situation similar , except that I Chronicle the questions and that he connecting the answers .
the Senator Buchanan :
this is exactly , and you obteniez always the good response .
the Senator Boudreau :
the hon. Senator will can - be the situation current more pleasant .
before of answer to the question of the hon. Senator , I like comment the comments made all to the hour .
this is with many of humility that I have agreed the responsibilities who me have was confiées , of as more that my predecessor the has assumed of way remarkable .
I to of , the in thank to the behalf of the Senate and of the public of the Canada .
honourable senators , I have also was very affected by the words of welcome and the advice that me has easier the Leader of the Opposition , who me has proposed , between other , of reconsidered the office of my time to this vénérable institution that is the Senate .
I him attention that , to this about , he has the support total of my wife .
in response to the question raised by the hon. Senator Buchanan , I contend that the Devco will to the centre of my concerns for any the office of my mandate present .
we know all two the matter since a period considerable .
he fact now the subject of a approach in two steps .
the first is to find a solution hon. for the resources human who working in this sector since of many years .
this question is a great importance not only for these people , but also for all the senators and for the government of the Canada .
the other step , well course , is to promote the development economic for help the community to the adapt to the transition in over .
human not knows better that the Senator who has asked the question that he the is that of a his transition between a economy industrial who is linked of a unique employer and a economy post - industrial .
a such transition not is never easy .
in this who with the question proprement refer , I bring course this concern .
I say however that the approach who is to transfer the resources to a exploitant of the sector private is in over .
all the world seems the hear for say that he the Glenney of the better way of be to the situation .
if the resources houillères can be incorporated and exploited surely , effectively and economically , I am sure that the new exploitant of the sector private will the proposal very seriously .
the Senator Buchanan :
honourable senators , I not will not of the privatization .
I have my own opinion to this regard .
the problem that an the 5 to 6 million of tonnes of coal récupérable , this is that , if the leadership of Devco sphere to are the line of tightening until to the sections higher of the houillère Phalen and over - beyond , he risk of be too later for that a exploitant of the sector private can selective this coal .
if a exploitant of the sector private so to the to , this is very well , but he will then that the miners who will this work to the over of the two next years can be always eligible to the benefits of retirement .
as the hon. Senator the knows , with the closure of the mine Phalen , a great number of miners not are not including in the formula regarding the program of your to the retirement has .
the mine Phalen has closed before that human not has arisen his closure and this is the problem who we ' now .
I like also question the Senator to the about of the someone 1 160 miners who will affected by the closure of the mine Phalen .
the process of évincement has already began with the houillère Prince .
the men who have was Earmarked when the mine Phalen has closed and those who the roles of the maintenance of this mine have évincé the workers of the houillère Prince , which about 250 have received their notice of implementation to at .
when be add these men - this to the other , that fact someone 1 per miners who not will no Benefit of retirement , there including those who have 20 years of rotunda , but who not are not enough seniors for have 75 points .
I is that very unfair and this is this that find also the chairman and the members of the executive of the United victim Workers .
he must find a way for to these people - that eligible to the Program of your to the retirement has .
a bill is possible and this would very simple .
of the senators not know not that a enormous operation of Municipality the is to the Devco .
the even something worth for the Sydney Steel Corporation , the he the product someone something that - there .
the prospect to the Devco will about 150 million of $ .
this program is considered to the hour current as to strong density not not of with - respect Bill , but of equipment .
I ask to the new Minister of to the question the more earlier possible with the Prime Minister .
be said in from , to the over of the campaign election provincial in Nova - Nova , the Prime Minister has advocates a letter to Ms Edna Budden and to the women of the miners their saying that he would to the officials of the Department of to all the aspects of the Program of your to the retirement has .
I know the he the has fact , but that must be fact for that these men not be not all simply caught for that .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , as not the know not the Senator , the program initiated by the government has was doubly affected by the closure premature of the mine .
of first , of the people who have had right to the Program of your to the retirement has , because that they had reached the rotunda necessary , not have not could there have access to because of the closure premature of the - this .
they have lost the time additionnel which they had need for the what and have therefore was affected very directly .
then , the program has also was affected because that the society continued on the income who would was generated by the and of the mine for this period .
, because of these two consequences of the closure premature of the mine , the government has esteemed necessary of to the program who had was proposed he there has someone time to the miners and to their families .
this review is always in over .
I have good confidence that we able to someone something for improve the situation , in particular for the groups which we come of speak and who have was directly affected by the closure premature of the mine .
I hope that the Prime Minister and the ministers it will find a solution to this case .
I bring certainly your interest and your comments also well that the rereading .
the environment
the Nova - Nova - Position responsibility of the with of the sites of PCB toxins
the hon. Lowell Murray :
honourable senators , if the Minister is their of answer to the question next , can - be could - he we bring a statement specific in a or two days .
what is to the fair the Position of the government of the Canada to the about of the responsibility of the with of the sites miniers in and or abandoned who are now of the resort to the Cape - Cape ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I me will a happy of consult my colleagues of the Council private and of give to the Senator a response specific .
I have the Appendix that , as this is the case for of other companies of state , the responsibility in s environmental not disparaîtra not .
as he is very little likely that a accrue has this responsibility , he seems that it we will .
the Defence national
the Nova - Nova - - funding of the prospect of the damage occur by the floods in the coincidental of Cumberland
the hon. Donald H . Oliver :
honourable senators , I wish I also to congratulate the new Leader of his appointment .
as he has was Minister of the Finance to the level provincial , he knows that he not is not easy of find of the funds for the emergency .
my question with the coincidental of Cumberland , in Nova - Nova , who has was recently ravagé by of the floods .
four bridges have was emportés and four highways have was abîmées to the point of be irréparables .
as the Minister the knows , the Nova - Nova ask a assistance federal for cover of the damage of more ; million of $ .
the Minister would - he the please of we say what measures he is prepared to take for that be débloqués the funds necessary to the one of these damage in the coincidental of Cumberland ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I believe that this ask the adresserait to the Minister of the Defence national .
I believe understand , of after this that the Senator has said , that the province has indeed asked of the assistance .
, my notice , the response will the at in the context of a program federal existing , but I donnerai more of details to the Senator as that I will from of other information to this about .
the transport
the Nova - Nova - Position possible of a bill of infrastructure for the renewal of the road EH
the hon. Marjory LeBreton :
honourable senators , I to , I also , wish the welcome to the new Leader of the government to the Senate .
and of a " bad management on in s of fisheries " .
honourable senators , the words that I just of deal are those of none other that the former Prime Minister Liberal of the New - Brunswick , Frank McKenna , such that quotations in the Globe and Mail of the 5 October 99 .
he has said then :
the to of the government is still least reluisant today today that he not the was to the time of the election ( in 1997 ) ...
this that the ( Canadians of the Atlantic ) want , the only something that they are and have always demandée to the government federal , this is a vision , a with numbered that he recognizes the problem and a ray of hope ... ... ... .
that has fact the government for with these serious problems ?
he has composed 911 and asked the Senator Bernie Boudreau .
then , about of first of the Nova - Nova .
honourable senators , my question the is to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
he the is of the road EH in Nova - Nova , who has was the into of a real carnage and the because of many Late .
in his quality of Minister responsible of the Nova - Nova , that will to the Leader of the government for be to this sad situation ?
is - he prepared to the Services and to local that the government will spend a bill of infrastructure federal to the Reconstruction and to the renewal of the sections affiliated Mudslide of laroute EH ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I me told when these words Mr. McKenna would ramenées on the been .
I me am of the fact that , in the speech of the Throne presented yesterday , he be question of way very " and effective of the vision that he évoquait .
of the talks are now in over with the Minister of the Transport relatively to the infrastructure routières .
in the speech of the Throne , he is question of the infrastructure physical traditional and of those in the field of the Communications .
I is that encouraged .
that the inscrira that in the plan of the government federal , then that the Nova - Nova the without to enter in the new millennium .
I will certainly of the question with the Minister .
the Senator LeBreton :
honourable senators , the Leader of the government to the Senate sharing he the notice expressed by the former - Prime Minister McKenna ?
good number of those who have already borrowed this road know of what he is question .
he the is of a section highway extremely dangerous , as he in there of , in of other regions of our country .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , the Senator me ask if I sharing the notice Mr. McKenna who , of male , has already was my associated in a s of lawyers .
I not praiseworthy not the hon. Senator in him saying that , on this point , I not am not of agreed Mr. McKenna .
this is indéniable that the prosperity general who has was created in our country is almost without precedent .
the Governor of the Bank of the Canada believe that the growth of our economy to the over of the four the trimestres is Superior to 4 per , this who not the is never seen .
however , despite this growth remarkable , our rate of inflation rest consistent to the objectives under - this who is a achievement over .
certainly , this achievement not the is not concrétisé also in all the regions of our country .
Mr. . McKenna wanted can - be to upon the situation of way flamboyante .
I must however say to the honourable senators that to well of the places of the Canada Atlantic , the data on the creation of jobs and the unemployment indicate clear that the prosperity the is relates .
it not is can - be not also important that we the souhaiterions and not the can - be not fact feel across , but we continue of while of the efforts in this sense .
we hope that , this by , we able be on the support Mr. McKenna .
by , , I know very well the road in question .
I the have empruntée to and opportunities .
the system highway Main of the Nova - Nova , who has including bénéficié of the funding of the government federal , is in enough good of , even the he not is not perfect across .
he we must recognize the role that the Senator Buchanan has played to this regard .
the province of the Nova - Nova has a good system highway , but I the as , he not is however not perfect .
the hon. Senator has spoke of a road who does of the improvements .
I not doubt not that the Minister of the Transport here of the question with the counterpart provincial in this s .
the environment
the Nova - Nova - - prospect of the étangs bitumeux of Sydney
the hon. Mira Spivak :
honourable senators , my question the is also to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
he will noticed without doubt that our first questions for the to to the it them on the region that he knows the better .
I not will not of comments on the authorized to we the questions that we him have raised until to now .
number of my friends environnementalistes working of however - at since long for draw the attention of the government on this question .
in fact , Mr. Don Deleskie , a particular , has even fact the extend of the hunger .
he has , of more , by of décontaminer the étangs to the assistance of a simple pelle .
before that the Minister will to the question , I like him say that , recently , the Senate has adopted a bill of bill first who not with or of the enlèvement or of the production of products chemical toxins dangerous as the PCB who the find in this place tainted .
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I thank her the Senator of his question .
in fact , I thank all the senators of for of the questions on a region that I know enough well .
I know well the question of the étangs bitumeux of Sydney .
in the past , he there has had of the attempts of with of the étangs bitumeux .
some of between they have cost very sir and not have not of of good results .
be has spent many of money for not obtain that of thin results .
the two levels of government , what that be their affiliation policy , have tried of impose of the solutions to the community .
these attempts have also failed .
however , this time - this , in the framework of this important initiative , the government federal , with the assistance of the government provincial , implementation someone 62 million of $ for initiate this who , we the hope , should be the regulation final of this problem .
however , that given of the experience of the past , experience who not was not very plaisante or culmination , he has was decided of to participate the community to the research of a solution to this problem .
the solution proposed had of the community .
the problem with this way of to this is that the - this require of the time .
he is many more quick of impose a solution that of be to obtain a consensus to the within of the community .
by therefore , a group Joint composed of representatives of various sectors of the community has was ' on at .
the government federal has in to a program , conjunction with the government provincial , and those - this the are " to provide 62 million of $ , which 70 per erroneous of the federal .
a commitment important has was took .
the group Joint is on the point of complete the first step of the work and he hope that of the measures corrective will be taken the more quickly possible .
that worth the only of out this consensus to the within of the community .
I have seen of the case where the be has deliberation for the other solution and the results obtained not have not was very palatable .
the principles of the payment by the will , of the prevention of the pollution and of the Elimination step of the products chemical toxins - Position Position of the government
the hon. Mira Spivak :
honourable senators , a consensus to the within of the community is a something wonderful .
however , in this case - this the responsibility of this who the is product not can certainly not be imputée to the community .
this is the company who has left a guilty .
that given of the bill of bill that we come of adopt , the Leader of the government support he personally the principles that which the pollueur must pay and , particularly , the Elimination step of the manufacturing , of the production and of the use of such products chemical toxins , to that in the future we not be more face to this problem ?
in from , be has lost as of time with the solutions cut by the government and without consensus local that the little of time that he would for can to this consensus not is not a about of concern .
I like have a idea of the opinion of the Minister of the Nova - Nova , Leader of the government to the Senate , on the principles very important of the pollueur - is , of the prevention of the pollution and , more important still , of the Elimination step of the use and of the production of the most of the products chemical toxins .
be just fair of discover that the use to the broad of the British - British have a rate very high of wastes in their body , this who is result to the production and to the use of many products chemical .
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , the participation local and the it of a consensus local have was made to the two levels of government by the community .
the government the is record to these requêtes .
this is a process very valid and necessary , even the he ralentit a little the progress on the ground .
for this who is of the other question raised by the hon. Senator , I say that he has was per years for may the étang of tar .
be not would not a such pollution the up today today .
I not have no point of disagreement majeur with this that has said the hon. Senator .
I like well discuss of this about more in full with it , but nothing of this that it has said not me " particularly .
we not must never to that a such situation the as .
the Senator Spivak :
honourable senators , I am pleased of see that the Leader of the government to the Senate is to the least with we that he must eliminate phase the manufacturing of the most of the products chemical toxins .
thank for this statement very evident .
the agriculture
the effectiveness of the programs to to help the farmers
the hon. Leonard J . Gustafson :
honourable senators , I wish I also the welcome to the new Leader of the government to the Senate and I him wish all the success possible .
my question relates on a about that he knows well .
the farmers of the Nova - Nova have - three years of drought .
the program that the government has ' on at not the has not drafting .
he pays to the farmers 70 per of the average of their income of the three past years .
honourable senators , 70 per of nothing , this is zero .
the Leader of the government is - he to the aware of that ?
in the affirmative , that will he to this regard ?
I to also him attention the situation in Saskatchewan , in Alberta and to the Manitoba .
the farmers are here to Ottawa since three days .
they are a situation of crisis to the Canada .
the Leader of the government to the Senate will he this message to the cabinet and insistera he on the uniqueness pressing of the problem of dispute national which our country is they in some sectors of the industry agricultural ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I know that the Senator Gustafson just of the Saskatchewan . - months last , I have had the opportunity of me to to Regina to as of member of the board of Administration of the Bank of the Canada , service that I occupais to the time .
during of this visit , we have was ' to the aware of the situation of the agriculture in the Prairies by the leaders of the sector agricultural and by of the economists .
even if I not understand course not also well the situation that the Senator , I am when even in legislation of understand the difficulties who exist and the desire of the farmers of have of the rules of the at field .
the governments federal and provincial have provided a assistance Supplementary of 1.5 billion of $ to the farmers in the framework of the Program of assistance in case of disaster linked to the income agricultural .
a part of the difficulty with to the fact that , until to this day , only 190 million of $ have was paid to the farmers .
however , to the end of the year , we anticipate that the determined questionable researcher million of $ .
the pace will the speed and he is to hope that the problem talked by the Senator the puzzled someone little .
the Senator Gustafson :
honourable senators , I thank the Minister of his response .
the problem , this is that the program ACRA not works not .
the formula not is not good , as the know the senators of the two sides of the House who come of the Prairies and of the Nova - Nova .
it not works all simply not because that it the based on 70 per of the income way of the three past years .
the farmer who has known three bad years of on is really in difficulty .
the program not the déclenchera not in the case .
this is that a of the major problems .
the government must there the appropriation some of way to this that the be can there have access .
this is that a about of concern national .
the country not can the to of losing his farmers .
be we has said yesterday night that of 30 . to 40 . farmers could to bankrupt .
the problem is a such emergency that he Order a intervention immediate .
of the button professionals agricultural have them to reach the Prime Minister .
the Prime Minister Trudeau not was not the human the more rock in the Western , as the Minister the knows , but he the is record to Regina , in Saskatchewan . It the is given in the chorus Work to the legislature legislative , and the farmers not the have not very well treaty .
they him have initiated of the Wheat to the is .
however , he the is indeed presented .
the Leader of the government to the Senate will he the please of say to the Prime Minister that the farmers want that he the votes on the situation in the field agricultural ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , he me will happy of would this message to the behalf of the Senator Gustafson .
Affairs foreign
notice of motion to to Authorize the Committee to study the consequences of the Union Monetary European
leave to was granted of to to the notice of motion of the government :
the hon. John B . Stewart :
honourable senators , I give notice that tomorrow , the Thursday 14 October 99 , I move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign be authorized to study and to to report on the consequences for the Canada of the for of the Union Monetary European and on of other issues other in s of trade and of Investment ;
that the you received and the evidence heard on the question by the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign during the first session of the 30 - sixth Parliament be referred to the Committee ;
that the Committee its the report final to the more later 15 December 99 ; and that the Committee divested the powers necessary to the Electronic of the results of the study content in the report final and this until to the 24 December 99 ; and
that the Committee be authorized , notwithstanding the practices considered , to table the report with of the Clerk of the Senate , if the Senate not seat not , and that obedience report be being have was tabled to the Senate .
order DAY THE
the speech of the Throne
motion of Adopted of the Adresse in response - Ajournementdu debate
the Senate on to the study of the speech that His Excellency the Gouverneure general of the Canada has by to the openness of the 30 - sixth Parliament .
the hon. Richard H . Jeffrey , seconded by the hon. Senator Furey , move :
that the Adresse which the text following be introduced to His Excellency the Gouverneure general of the Canada :
, the Excellency the very hon. Adrienne Clarkson , Chancelière and Compagnon Main of the Order of the Canada , Chancelière and Commandeur of the Order of the Mérite military , Gouverneure general and Commandante in Leader of the Canada .
QU' IL PLAISE , VOTRE EXCELLENCE :
we , issues very dedicated and about of Majesty Majesty , the Senate of the Canada , assemblés in Parliament , prions respectfully Honour Excellency of entertain our humbles also for the Ex speech that her has advocates to the two Houses of the Parliament .
essential to the framework of proposals that it has made in the speech , this who makes good number of between they possible in fact , are the surpluses , current and adjust , registered in the accountable of the Canada .
be is far of the painful battle seeing against the debt grew who , he not there has not if long still , we privait of opportunities , bouleversait our priorities and assombrissait our future .
through to the sacrifice contribute by all the Canadians and through to the determination and to the excellent management of our government , we is face to the choice very different certainly , but ô how exaltants of know to what areas orienter the resources paramount of the public Canadian .
we know all that he there among the great public , the media and our own parties political of many ideas , of many dreams , of many priorities and of many ways different of can to the same objectives .
he responsibility to our government of listen all the world carefully , of to his own studies and Evaluations and , finally , of decide of a plan of action .
this is of after the plan of action that he the will set and the effectiveness of the enforcement that he will felt .
of more , this is of the quality of his decisions and of his actions that depend the well - be of the Canada and of the Canadians .
the Gouverneure general has spoke of the direction that the government has the intention of take and of the doors who can now the open - of the doors the stamped to the Canada on a future better and more interesting for the first generations of Canadians of the next millennium .
these doors indicate " Entrée " , and not " Sortie " .
they the leaves on of the opportunities , and not on of the walls .
they are the access to of the coin are , to the education , to the research , to of the jobs productive and gratifiants .
the Gouverneure general has indicated this that the Canada the move of to for the Canadians to the over of the years to come and has explained why our country believe that these objectives are important .
today today , honourable senators , I like you body a word of the way which I see our country - of the past , of the this and certainly of the future , such that I the conçois .
this is for I a honour and a great happy of power take the speak in response to the speech of the Throne .
as I just of announce that I would you to on of my it personal , he is important that I the at with be .
since my arrived to the Senate , I understand better the real sense of these long ; then let - I of you describe the manner - or rather the ways - which I mine our country .
he there has all of first a question of geography , which is crucial .
I opposite to the centre of the Canada .
even if this statement can choquer good number of people in this city , and of many other to Toronto , this is however true .
the centre - city of Winnipeg not is that to 20 minutes of the centre longitudinal of the Canada .
this not is not only a singularité geographical , this is also a reality meaningful .
that means that he there has two fuseaux horaires to the west and two and half - even three - to the is .
that means that the half west of our province reflects the great only and the great beauty of the Prairies while that the the finding to the is is formulate ancrée in the Bouclier Canadian .
be not can live where I opposite , between the Saskatchewan and the Ontario , without have of the country a perception different of those that in have of the people least favorisées .
honourable senators , I me hasten of you anyone of fear that you not confondiez our situation geographical with the isolation or the insularité .
our links Cultural and linguistic with the Quebec are formulate enracinés in the community franco - manitobaine established to St. - Boniface .
during any the history of the Canada , it has was the a of the two communities of language and of culture French the more important to the outside of the Quebec .
our institutions cultural - of the sectors of the into , of the flagship and of the music - the are learning a Fame international and are enracinées in a rich mixture of groups ethnic .
our world of the Affairs , built in more of a century of trade international of products of basic and now rich of the contribution of the new technologies , is a of the more open on the outside .
we by the world around as our market natural .
our producers , old and négociants understand since long the reality of the globalization who their uniting well .
the place of the Manitoba in the world has can - be found the illustration the more éclatante in the Games panaméricains remarkably a who the are held in we the was last .
this was the event the more important of the such of any the history of the Canada and the third in importance to the be given where that this be in the world .
nothing not would better known we explain to the Canada and to the world around .
honourable senators , even if I seems preach for my boards in by these past comments , this not was not my intention .
I wish simply to remind that the Manitoba and Winnipeg are of the elements there of the Canada present , of where he is important of having and of comment the major questions who the an .
though without malice , this Appendix , if it not is not been in question , risk of make to a regrettable incompréhension of the country , of his needs and of his opportunities .
our Fathers of the Confederation have including this danger and have designed the Senate of manner to ensure a representation balanced of all the regions .
those of between we who not come not of great centres of public have the duty and the responsibility of speak firmly and often , as to the Senate that to the committees , of such so that all the Canadians the do hear .
I rise also today today as member of a generation in particular , this who conditionne essentially my point of view .
I am unborn to the enter of the Second War World , of so that some events and some ideas of this time and of the years who have immediately followed are always costs to my memory .
I have fact my studies particularly in the fantastiques years 50 , decade which be has fact the least of case in this century .
I have by my first activities political fair to the time where Lester Pearson with the leadership of the Party Liberal of the Canada .
of , , this is to the over of a evening from in company Mr. Pearson , then Leader of the Opposition , and of a small group to Winnipeg , to the end of the years 50 , that I me am committed for the life to the Party Liberal .
I have of first worked as official on the Hill to Ottawa , for Mr. Pearson was Prime Minister .
incidentally , I not can me prevent of out that , even the he has was Leader of the government for to only five years and the he not has never led a government majority , Mr. Pearson has changed and enriched the Canada for always .
in by this statement , I think to the great programs social that him and the government we have issue .
that said , he me is came the other day still of think that he is well difficult of imagine the Canada in 99 without our flag insufficient .
for well of the Canadians , this act of all will policy and of pride for the Canada in the era Pearson .
I have also was witness of the for Mr. Trudeau and of the debut of the remarkable leadership .
Ottawa was became a pôle of poles for the young men and the young women , with of energy and of ideas , who believed that all was possible and that the Canada was the place where this was practical .
no of those - and he there in has several in this chamber today today - who were here to this time and who have shared the experiences of these years not can never the forget and , who more is , not has never since known a such effervescence in our country .
he there has a something fundamental that we have apprise then : not never under - Total the Canada and not never , to the great never , under - Total the importance and the Oath of the idea of the Canada for the Canadians and for the people of the world around .
honourable senators , the he is a remember that I Access of the years 1966 to 1969 , this is the remarkable sense of optimism who the dégageait of across and who imprégnait all a each .
Expo 67 was the expression " and hers of the confidence of the Canada in itself and in his place in the world .
, the reflection , I me so now that of the power enormous of a such sense of confidence and of optimism and that of the source incredible of energy that he can be for a country and his people .
today today , I not can me prevent of consider the force of the Canada and of the economy , the absence of all conflict international of dispute , the revolution époustouflante who the as in the field of the Science and of the Technology and that the puissante combination of all these factors who , together , not can that improve the quality and the only of the life of all the Canadians and of the almost 6 billion of people human who shared our planet , without repeated a time of more , and still more intensément , this even optimism who me animait when , young man , I am came on the Hill of the Parliament .
finally , honourable senators , I me timely to from of the point of view of someone a who is to the Senate since very little of time .
I am came here he there has a little more of a year for about a new career .
even if I had a training of lawyer , to the over of the 30 years previous I have was a man of Affairs who the is tried of build a business acted the activity to the Canada and , .
this by , I have many learned on the realities of the community of the Affairs and on the operating of our economy .
I have learned that he was essential of have of the people educated and well ensured in all the disciplines .
I have learned that the leadership is a jurisdiction exigée and implemented to all the levels by any business prosperous .
I have learned that the pride happens relatively to a company and to his products is a key fundamental of the success and that the pride that a human having to the regard of the country grandit without has when our products and services are exportés a little across in the world .
honourable senators , we must continue of from the better party of our closest and of our links of friendship and continue of avoid the traps associated to the inégalités in the only and in the has social .
he in is and since that Sir John A . Macdonald has fact a first assessment of our future , and that not has never was also true that today today .
we , Canadians , must remain firmly attachment to our values and to our identity .
a society who not is éprise or of justice or of compassion not cannot truly advance .
however , as the country of the chorus are of more in more closely stretched , we must we focus on the needs special of the 21 century .
of first , he must that the Canada has a economy and a life cultural more rich and more attirantes for capter the interest of the young Canadians and their to of new prospects .
this is with these atouts that we able the get to live and to to career here , to the Canada .
honourable senators , I am always drove of a firm conviction , who is his source in the enthusiasm and the optimism are I have Alternately here he there has more of 30 years , and I not am not the only to believe that we can the to revivre .
of the Senators :
hear !
the hon. George J . Furey :
honourable senators , this is for I a honour and a privilege of support the motion , introduced by my esteemed colleague and friend , the Senator Jeffrey , to the Adopted of a Adresse in response to the speech of the Throne by by His Excellency the Gouverneure general .
I see here of the women and of the men who have fact many for the Canada , and of to part of this great institution me honore and me impressionne .
I like take a time for congratulate the Senator Graham and the Senator Carstairs of their work to as of Leader and Leader Deputy of the government to the Senate .
I not have not had for long the opportunity of the see to the implement , but during the two first weeks turbulent of September , I have could see with what dedication they accomplissaient their task in this House .
my best wish the Expenditure in their new duties and I know that they continue of we to their contribution and their assistance .
I wish to wish the welcome to the Senator Boudreau , who at the relais to as of Leader .
I manquerais to my duty , honourable senators , if I not félicitais our Gouverneure general for the speech of the Throne that it has by yesterday .
his accomplishments to as of communicatrice , journalist and advocate of many causes valid in have fact a of the major figures of our country .
I am very enthousiasmé by the perspective of see his effect and the spirit animer the as vice - Alaska to the over of the next years .
honourable senators , this is a honour and a privilege of participate to the life public to this time of our history , a time where the challenges are of size and the opportunities stimulantes , a era of globalization and of hopeful technologique .
we are indeed to few weeks of a new millennium .
the time not is not only exaltante for the country all around , it in also a point turning for Newfoundland - Newfoundland and the Labrador .
these the months of 99 are all naturally a time of v. for which the Newfoundland - alter réfléchiront to the place that they roles to the within of the country and to their prospects of future .
today today , Newfoundland - Newfoundland and the Labrador the for in the tourmente of the great changes technological and economic who balayent the world .
the people of this region not the are however not just ; they are call to their skills and to their learning of long date for to opposite to the realities of the change quick .
through to their creativity , their resort , their solidarity , their determination and their fiercely to the work , they will their dreams and choose to the before their province and their country .
the statistics economic recent we in say long on the evolution of our province .
the Conference Board of the Canada has out that the rate of growth real of the GDP of Newfoundland - Newfoundland , who the one to 5,2p. per , is the more high to the Canada .
the prospects of employment the améliorent also , because the rate of unemployment has decreased of more of 2.5 points since the year last .
the honourable senators are to the aware of the benefits of mégaprojets as Hibernia , the be of the over on of the Churchill and the possible and of the impact of Voisey' s Bay .
these great bills are cruciaux for the success economic of Newfoundland - Newfoundland , but the history is far of the complete that .
in all the jurisdictional of the economy , of the companies of our province remportent of the success of more in more éclatants .
certainly , the industries traditional as the and mining and of the Forestry and the fisheries would of the elements essential to our well - be economic .
but that not must not to forget the real dynamic of diversification who has began to the dramatically .
of the companies implantées in we are their in in of the areas as the Communications , the technical manufacturières of forefront and the management of the PCB dangerous .
honourable senators , the a of the sectors of growth the more important to Newfoundland - Newfoundland , these past years , has was the tourism , and the trend should the maintain .
" evening 99 " , who out the contribution of Newfoundland - Newfoundland to the Canada in this fiftieth anniversary of the into in the Confederation , has was a éclatant success to the has national .
his festivals , his exams and his other activities , including the taken " of the turn of the CN , the was last , have known a Summer success .
these activities have contributed to prepare the next great Women , in 2000 , the of the millième anniversary of the arrived of the Cabot in the New third .
the Games of Winter of the Canada of 99 , held to Corner Brook , have also won enormous of success .
qualifiées of the a of the best éditions of these games , the - have fact discover our province to the téléspectateurs and to the visitors of the together of the country .
the success of the Games of Winter of the Canada , honourable senators , example the a of the major forces of Newfoundland - Newfoundland that I wish to mention , be the spirit generous , ingénieux , bienveillant and warmest of the Newfoundland - alter .
be said often that the indicators economic not alternatives not , to them only , to illustrate this who fact a great society .
the Canada not is not became the great country that he is today today only in reason of the performance economic .
he is obvious that of the political economic solid and responsible play a role important , and the government land - neuvien all as the government federal should be félicités for their to in this field .
the were of our province and of our country not with however not only to their performance economic .
this who fact of the Canada a country where he fact good live , this who the topic of the States - United , this who in fact the envy of the world around , this is the great passion of the Canadians who want understand and protect all the members vulnerable of their society , all those who not are not in legislation of take be of them - same .
honourable senators , he not must never take that to the lightly if we want continue of to the envy of the my around .
we must continually be to aviver this great passion of the Canadians and never the let the éteindre .
this is to Newfoundland - Newfoundland and to the Labrador that these values are the better illustrées , honourable senators .
the quality of life of the Newfoundland - alter today any legislation economic conventionnelle , because he is impossible of wants a price to the spirit community , to the expression cultural and to the compassion .
he not fact no doubt , honourable senators , that the quality of life is directly linked to the nature generous and charitable of a society .
that the Survey national of 1997 on the don , the they and the participation , the people of Newfoundland - Newfoundland and of the Labrador listed still a time among the citizens the more generous of the Canada .
more of the third of the public has of of the time to of the his of more .
the Newfoundland - alter affichaient the more very rate of contribution financial to of the agencies of more to the Canada , 84p. per of the people of Newfoundland - Newfoundland of more of 15 years to fact of the made for help is .
this generosity of spirit , in despite often of time difficult , is profoundly enracinée in the history of Newfoundland - Newfoundland .
this is the of people who are of great revers since 500 years and that the individual are together to the place of the from .
Érosion :
honourable senators , he the on well of the things positive today today to Newfoundland - Newfoundland and to the Labrador , but many of challenges remain to met and many of problems , to solve .
he is very encouraged of see that the government federal the commitment , in the speech of the Throne , to the deal to these problems .
I wish to speak here of two problems in particular .
the Prime is the problem of the drain of the Newfoundland - alter .
many of families of Newfoundland - Newfoundland and of the Labrador have the pain of see from of the friends and of the " for of other parties of the Canada and of the world .
the decline of the public to the 1 July last was the more there never ' since the closure of the fishing on the Grand Pott , but he is still too high .
he is encouraged of see that the Prime Minister Tobin and the government are IT to this problem and profoundly to the relieve .
he is encouraged also , honourable senators , of see that the government federal the commitment , in the speech of the Throne , not only to work to keep the young Canadians to the Canada , but also to to know that the Canada is really the better place where live to the 21 century , a place where the best and the more brilliant in the rest of the world want come live .
the commitment to invest of the funds in the research , the businesses beneficial and the skills of the skills will our the young of Newfoundland - Newfoundland and of across to the Canada to remain in their country for there continue their dreams .
we have a challenge closely to met , honourable senators , , of continue to improve the quality of the education dispensé to our young and that the opportunities of there access .
the young Canadians of Newfoundland - Newfoundland and of , attentive from the better party of these new opportunities for power be self .
they not can the to without a assistance get in s of education .
the University Memorial of Newfoundland - Newfoundland famous , in 99 , the fiftieth anniversary in as that institution as Crowshoe of the diplômes .
since 50 years , the University Memorial has played a role capital in the development of Newfoundland - Newfoundland and of the Labrador .
even if the access to a education of quality dispensé by the University Memorial and by of other institutions academic and collégiaux of the Canada the is expanded to the over of the years , of many students of Newfoundland - Newfoundland and of across to the Canada not can about of the studies post to because of obstacles financial as the lack of funds and the costs of tuition high .
of many other are forced of abandon their studies before of the have period to because of problems as the enormous debt of the students .
honourable senators , I know these problems for the have vécus personally .
without the opportunity extraordinary that has established for I the tuition gratuite instaurée in the years 60 by the Prime Minister Smallwood of the time and the government , I think that I not would not in legislation of to this intervention to the Senate today today .
fortunately , good number of the investment who have was announced in the speech of the Throne and who is to improve the productivity and to struggle against the drain of the drain will orientés to the universities Canadian , to the support of the activities of research and development in of the areas as the care of health and the high Technology .
7.54 to of the initiatives as the Fund of staffing of the scholarships of studies of the millennium , these new resources will our to to the education post more accessible to the students .
for power follow a training avancée , the children must power grow in a community course where their needs basic are satisfied and they must be encouraged to the supplying and to benefit to the appreciates of their studies an and high .
as the senators the know , he there has too of children who live in the poverty to the Canada .
the he not there had that a only child poor to the Canada , that would despite all it to the extraordinary fabric social of our country .
if the Canada to succeed on the plans social and economic in the future , he him must come to across of the poverty in the children .
honourable senators , as be the has seen enough clear in the speech of the Throne , the condition of the children is to the order of the day of the concerns of the government .
be has many was on the measures that the government that take for improve the fate of the children to the country .
in uphold the programs current such the credit of tax for children , the program of food of the new - Regarding and the congés parentaux , our government the is committed to take of the measures urgently .
the cooperation with the governments provincial in view of coordinating the offer of these programs and services is to the basic even of the success of this initiative .
honourable senators , when of the people of a little across to the world come visit Newfoundland - Newfoundland , as the rest of the Canada of , , a great part of this who the draw in we is the beauty of our Oceans , of our Forestry , of our mountains and of our rivers .
if we want maintain the reputation of the Canada to as of country of a incredible beauty and of a great diversity environmentally , we must to more for protect the environment natural , there including the many cash of plantes and of animals which the existence is danger by the invasion human in their habitat .
honourable senators , we to Newfoundland - Newfoundland know better that anyone that when the balance of the nature is bousculé , the impact on the people can be dévastatrices and of great dispute .
this is therefore with many of enthusiasm that I her the efforts of the government in view of protect the integrity of our systems empathize .
through to of the measures to to reduce the by of gas toxins and to adopt of the regulations of together on the cash species of has , the Canada will in legislation of respect his commitments opposite to the generations future in this who has with to the legislation of our history natural .
honourable senators , to the over of the campaign election of 1997 , the government has promised to the Canadians that the half of the accruing budget would so to of new Estimates in the priorities Social and that the other half would divided between of the small of tax targeted and the would of the debt national .
in the speech of the Throne , the government has réaffirmé that this commitment figurera in the next budget .
this is a good new for all the Canadians who have - of the years of cuts of the programs and of the services without - of tax same .
he any in addition of not not forget the importance of intangibles the debt national .
if this not is not a surprise for the senators , he in will other of a myriad of Canadians who are surprise of learn that the more great expenditure of the government of the Canada is ; by the service of the debt national - which the one to someone 40 billion of $ by year ; all this money could be more useful the he was spent other , but we not can not the to as that the debt not will not was 883,000 .
a approach balanced is essential in the economy mondialisée of today today , a economy who the equip quickly and who is in eventually evolution .
the powers public must therefore be more flexibles and capable of adopt more of representations strategic opposite to the challenges .
this is essential if we want adhérer to these values who we about of the rest of the world .
in our quality of parliamentarians , we must urge and invite all the levels of government to not never losing of view the major values Canadian who we distinguent , because the he continues of there point of the caught - for - that in our society , the he continues of there have of the children been , the he continues of there have a lack of care of health for our patients and our people seniors and the he continues of there have of the deficiencies , even of the failure , in our systems of education , which not parviennent not to provide of the opportunity playing to all the Canadians , this is any the society who in suffering .
the great similarly English John Donne the has very well said in the short , but rending poem " Island déserte " .
in as that member of the great society Canadian , I urge all the senators to listen the last strophe of this poem and to interpeller the conscience collective Canadian who must always the be if we want we remember of these values who we distinguent :
and , by therefore , not cherchez never to know for who " the " , because he " for you .
the - of the approach of the government in s of direction public will vital if the be to that the government divested a role positive and compassionate auXXIe century .
I am enthousiasmé by the initiatives announcements in the speech of the Throne and by the opportunities the appearing to Newfoundland - Newfoundland and to the Canada , to the approach of the 21 century .
honourable senators , I am with forward of work with each of between you for to in so that the Canada be really the better place where live to the 21 century .
( on the motion of the Senator Boudreau , the debate is adjourned . )
the adjournment
leave to was granted of to to the notice of motion of the government :
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the ( 58 ( 1 ) p.m. ) of the Rules , I move :
that , when the Senate adjourns today today , he remains adjourned until to tomorrow , the Thursday 14 October 99 , to 9 p.m. .
the Hon. the Speaker :
is - this of agreed , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
questions of privilege
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , two honourable senators have fact know that they want raise the question of privilege .
well course , if the Senate the to , I am prepared to their to the speak .
however , I like out that I have already record a decision on the two questions of privilege and that the Senate has agreed that the motions proposed by the two senators regarding these two questions be renvoyées before the Committee Standing of the privileges and of the Rules .
if the Senate the to , the honourable senators could all simply repeat the motions adopted during of the last session .
however , if the honourable senators wish the speak , they are free of the express .
the hon. Anne C . Cools :
honourable senators , I like simply me ensure that I have well including of what he not .
the two questions of privilege have was raised in under of the section 43 of the Rules , His Hon. has record a decision , the opinion of the senators has was heard and the question has was referred to the Committee .
I believe that this that he must , this is all simply the confirmation that the Senate is of the even notice that during of the last session and that , with the leave of the Senate , or in under of the paragraph 59 ( 10 ) of the Rules , the two senators are given to propose their motions on - the - report .
the hon. ë A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , the I - even to the origin of a of the questions of privilege raised during the last session , I me plierai so to the desire of this hon. House as to the way of proceed .
however , he there has to the least two schools of s for this who is of determine if , when he there has prorogation , the Parliament remains before of a question of privilege who has was raised before the prorogation .
I to simply have a more great certainty .
, my notice , this is that a question of privilege very serious , and I believe that the senators were of agreed on this point before the prorogation .
in fact , His Hon. had felt that the question of privilege looking based to first view .
however , as he there has two schools of s , I wanted a more great degree of certainty , and this is why I have of a notice oral .
if the senators are of agreed , I will very briefly of this case and His Hon. determine , the he is always of this notice , that the question of privilege believe based to first view .
he not there will then more no doubt , and the motions appropriate will be made for that the question be referred to the Committee , a time that , - this will was up .
the Hon. the Speaker :
except notice contrary , I will now give the speak to the Senator Andreychuk .
the hon. A . Raynell Andreychuk :
honourable senators , I wanted me ensure , I also , that my motion and this question of privilege not were not lost .
I not have not the intention of me expand in long and in broad that - with .
I me outline of refer the honourable senators to the about that I have held the 14 September .
the National Financial has released of the drafts not catch of the report of the Committee of the Peoples aboriginal .
he there had a sure number of drafts in over ; he not fact no doubt that they have was to to the attention of the newspaper .
that be me understands well : I not me votes not on the fact that the newspaper has released the drafts of the report .
by included of brièveté , I not will not repeat my about .
all the comments that I wanted to , I the have faitesle 14 September .
I to simply that he in be fact mention in this motion .
the documents who have was tabled then are enough éloquents , and I am outset that the decision will inchangée and that I can now propose the motion for that the case be referred to the Committee Standing of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure .
decision of the Speaker
the Hon. the Speaker :
, least that a other Senator not wish speak on the question of privilege , I will to my decision , who is the even that the that I have renduele 14 September .
I acknowledge that he there has had présomption of it to the privilege and that the hon. Senator can propose his motion .
I me ask however if be not could not amend someone little the motion .
given of that the Committee not has not still was set , be not cannot refer the case to a Committee who not there not .
be could can - be add to the motion this who following : " Dès that the Committee of selection will was set , that this case be referred to the Committee " .
is - this of agreed ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the hon. Marcel homme man :
honourable senators , I have attended to a meeting this morning , to 9 p.m. 30 , who the is déroulée to subject allure .
could - we know why be not has not created this Committee this morning ?
the meeting before create of the committees has project to 9 p.m. 30 , then has adjourned quickly .
when can - be the expect to this that the other committees be created ?
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I not can not answer to this question .
I see however the Leader Deputy of the government the rise .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I not am not course that this question be valid .
it the would was during the period of the questions .
let - I however of there answer .
we are to the beginning of the session and the leaders of this side - this want have the possible of to more of attention that he not we has was of of the to to the is of the committees that the Committee of selection will may .
the meetings strain as tomorrow on this about .
is the response , Senator homme man .
referred to the Committee Standing of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure
the hon. A . Raynell Andreychuk :
honourable senators , I move therefore :
that the question of privilege to the about of the disclosure not Cabinet of drafts of a report of the Committee Senate Standing of the Peoples aboriginal be referred to the Committee Standing of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure when he will was set .
the Hon. the Speaker :
pleasure - he to the honourable senators of adopt the motion ?
the hon. John Lynch - Lynch ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , for be precise , the Committee of selection not réorganise not a Committee , this task is to the Senate of the Canada .
the formulation should be " a time that he will was set by the Senate of the Canada after Presented of the report . "
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , are - you of agreed for that we modifions the motion in this sense ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the hon. Marcel homme man :
honourable senators , I not like not , if earlier to the beginning of the session , use the Rules of the Senate because that our good friend , the Senator Hays , doubt that this Position not be regulatory .
this is all to fact against the Rules .
yesterday , I me am opposed to the Adopted of the motion of appointment of the Committee of selection .
this is this that they have fact with many of haste and of speed .
they have by to the selection of the members of two committees .
my Position not legalistic not the Rules .
the meeting of this morning was , as to I , serve to designate the members of all the committees .
that the leaders of the two sides of the House have decided of proceed to appointment of the members of two committees only not me bothers not .
but of that to believe that I fully the Rules , I not am not of agreed .
we not have that to rereads carefully the motion who has was agreed yesterday , then that I thought that it the would today today .
I would could debate of these questions more earlier today today , but I rather expect to tomorrow .
I not fully not the Rules when I say that the Committee of selection has sat this morning and that he would could appoint the senators who will members of all the committees .
he has decided , in his wisdom , of not designate of the members that to two committees .
the Senator Hays has therefore reason and I also .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I not will not determine who has reason or who has wrong .
I to all simply you attention that the study of the reports of the Committee of selection has was have to tomorrow .
you seen then the opportunity , during of the study of the Prime and of the second reports of the Committee of selection , of to point your proposal .
the Senate is now the motion of the hon. Senator Andreychuk , seconded by the hon. Senator DeWare :
that the question of privilege to the about of the disclosure not Cabinet of drafts of a report of the Committee Senate Standing of the Peoples aboriginal be referred to the Committee Standing of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure when he will was set .
you pleasure - he , honourable senators , of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
the hon. ë A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
the Hon. has said the 9 September that the question of privilege looking based to first view and the case has was referred to the Committee Standing of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure for study and report .
as we the have indicated he there has a time , the question of privilege is raised to of obtain of the Particulars , and I ask to His Hon. of statuer , as he the has already fact , that it looking based to first view .
if His Hon. in wants and , I am prepared to propose a motion appropriate .
decision of the Speaker
the Hon. the Speaker :
if no Senator not wish take the speak on the question of privilege , I am prepared to take a decision now .
as I the have said the 9 September , the hon. Senator has , that I , demonstrated that his question of privilege was based to first view and he can propose his motion to to refer the case to the Committee .
referred to the Committee Standing of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure
the hon. ë A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I move :
that the question of privilege regarding a witness who has appeared before the Committee Senate Standing of the agriculture and of the Forestry be referred to the Committee Standing of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure , when he will was set , for study and report .
the Hon. the Speaker :
you pleasure - he , honourable senators , of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
( the Senate the adjourned to the Thursday 14 October 99 , to 9 p.m. . )
debates of the Senate ( Hansard )
wondering Session , Session st ,
volume 6,401 , Issue 3
the Thursday 14 October 99
the hon. Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker
table of the Contents
' ' '
the fisheries and the Oceans
the provinces marine - - judgment of the Court Supreme confirmant the rights of fishing aboriginal
the price of the case " Nobody " for 99
Affairs routine
the business of the Senate
the adjournment
use to the Rules
the Association Parliamentary Canadian of the NATO
the delegation Canadian to the session of the spring of the Assembly of the Atlantic North , held to Warsaw , in Poland - Report of the report
the strategies to to answer to the needs of the aboriginal in s of housing
notice of inquiry
order DAY THE
the business of the Senate
the Committee of selection
Adopted of the Prime report
Adopted of the second report
visitors of in
transport and Communications
Authorized to the Committee of to the ascertain took in under of the Act on the transport to the Canada for Authorize the held of discussions on the proposal of Purchase of Air Canada by the sector private
Affairs foreign
Authorized to the Committee of study the new mandate of the Organization of the Treaty of the Atlantic North
motion of amendment
Authorized to the Committee of study the consequences of the union Monetary European
the business of the Senate
the SENATE
the Thursday 14 October 99
the Senate is met to 9 p.m. , the Speaker the to the Chair .
prayers .
the fisheries and the Oceans
the provinces marine - - judgment of the Court Supreme confirmant the rights of fishing aboriginal
the hon. Lowell Murray :
honourable senators , I you ask of you to a little indulgents , the time that I an a word on the situation who has over in the sector of the fisheries on the Coast is .
, the past new , and I must by that I me in either almost exclusively to the bulletins of press of this morning , the leaders seem have reversed to the Antarctic of 30 days that they had contribute to respect .
always of after the accountable people of press of the debate who has had place to the other place yesterday night , he seems that the Minister of the Fisheries , Mr. Dhaliwal , has was took by surprise by this new , all as the government is was mouth for , he there has four weeks , when the Court Supreme of the Canada has record his decision .
far of I the idea , honourable senators , of me for in expert jurist and still least in interprète of the judgment of the Court Supreme of the Canada , but the statement made by a of the leaders this morning , that which him and his colleagues the reserving the right of regulate their own activities of fishing , is , to my humble notice , contrary to the judgment record by the Court Supreme of the Canada .
in the decision majority , the Justice Binnie fact of of :
... the scope limited of the right obvious of the treaty .
he wrote this :
the right obvious of the treaty is a right réglementé who can , by regulation , be circonscrit to his limits appropriate .
of the limits of taken , which he would reasonable of the expect to this that they allow to the families mi' kmaq of the ensure a living make that the standards of today today , can be determined by regulation and colleague without to it to the right obvious of the treaty .
a such regulation satisfy this right and constitute not a it who should be valid following the standard established in the v. Badger .
honourable senators , he me seems that these statements are a invitation lancée by the Court Supreme of the Canada to the government to that he move a regulation .
when the Justice fact as to the regulation , to the limits of captures and to the tax of a regulation , he there has place of assume that he about of a regulation who would proposed by the government .
he there has about two weeks , the Prime Minister would said that the government wisely of ask to the Court Supreme of surseoir to the judgment .
more recently , the Minister of the Fisheries the in is took to the members of the Opposition who bogeyman the even something .
I i that the government has examined and rejected the option of ask of surseoir to the judgment and that this option has was been .
he me seems therefore that all this that he rest to to to the government , this is of to a legislation legislative or a regulation , or the two .
in addition , the government should consider of refer the regulation in question directly to the Court Supreme for ensure to this that he be well consistent with the judgment record by this last .
I doubt very that the aboriginal the provisional of least of that .
not any what regulation who will tabled will necessarily challenged and will from by the together of the process judicial .
I believe prudent that the government somatotropin a such regulation to the Court Supreme of the Canada .
honourable senators , if I say that , this is simply because that the situation the worsening of day in day .
without would be alarmist , I think that we not are that too aware of the incidents violent who the are products in the region and are to the there of the produce .
a vacuum legal has was created .
of other have capacity this vacuum created by the Court Supreme of the Canada and he me seems that it will be the chaos .
the price of the case " Nobody " for 99
the hon. Catherine S . Callbeck :
honourable senators , I like out that we mark the Monday 18 October next the Day of the human .
this is the 18 October 1929 that the Council private British has said that the women were of the " people " in right Canadian and that they could therefore be élues to the Senate .
this decision has was made to the on of a long battle legal and policy seeing by Emily by , Nellie McClung , Dupuis McKinny , Irene Parlby and Henrietta Muir Edwards , five women Canadian better whom as the the " Famous Five " .
since 1979 , in commémoration of the case " Nobody " , of the price of the Governor General are Achievement each year to the outset of the 18 October for honour of the women who have actively contributed to the promotion of the woman .
I am proud of to know to the honourable senators that a woman of Tignish , in Island - Edward - Prince - Edward , Anne - Marie ; , will among the five lauréates of this year .
Anne - Marie is a human remarkable who continues of help actively to the well - be of his community , of his province and of the country .
this is the second woman of the Island to receive this price prestigious .
Helen Yeo , of Charlottetown , in Island - Edward - Prince - Edward , the has already won in 1986 .
, the level provincial , it has defined and seconded of the changes of programs in view of increase the opportunity of the women during the mandate of member and of chairman of the Committee of the calls of the services social of the Island - Edward - Prince - Edward .
, the level national , Ms ; has was a member active of the Council Advisory Canadian of the situation of the woman of 1981 to 1986 .
four other women receive the even honour that Anne - Marie this year .
he the is of Mmes Bertha Allen , of Inuvik , in the Territories of the North - Western , Maris Eriksen , of Calgary , in Alberta , Enid Page , of Aylmer , to the Quebec and Bette Stephenson , of Richmond Hill , in Ontario .
honourable senators , the five lauréates of the price of the Governor General of this year deserve of the congratulations for the remarkable work that they have accomplished in their communities in view of to current the because of the women .
of the Senators :
hear !
the Hon. the Speaker :
I add , for the information of the honourable senators , that the Presented of the price of the Governor General the snapshots normally to magnificent Hall and that it is always followed of a dinner offered to the Senate by the Speaker of the Senate .
this year , he has was decided of to the price to Calgary because that this was in Alberta that habitaient the five women of the time .
the Presented will therefore made Monday next to Calgary .
I représenterai the Senate to the ceremony and all the senators who wish there participate are invited .
if you are of more forth details to this about , please enter in communication with my office .
Affairs routine
the business of the Senate
the adjournment
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the ( 58 ( 1 ) p.m. ) of the Rules , I move :
that , when the Senate the adjourns today today , this be to the Tuesday 2 November 99 , to 14 p.m. .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the leave is - it granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Hon. the Speaker :
pleasure - he to the honourable senators of adopt the motion ?
the hon. Marcel homme man :
honourable senators , I not you reaction not my désarroi opposite to this adjournment extensions .
we come to only of to .
I would know that the Senate seat the week next , if the other week .
I not understand not why the committees Senate not are not already trained .
of the business tremendous could be by by these different committees .
the Committee of the transport and of the Communications and the Committee of the Affairs foreign should sit today today .
use to the Rules
the hon. Sharon Carstairs :
the hon. ë A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
he not the is even not of a motion .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , the leave has was granted of propose a motion .
the hon. Marcel homme man :
this is exactly .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the Senate is before of the motion .
I believe that , a time the leave granted , the motion can to the subject of a debate .
I acknowledge however that normally , the motion of adjournment not can be debated .
the Senator Kinsella :
he the is of a notice of motion .
the Hon. the Speaker :
he the is of a motion proposing of adjourn to a date later .
I not have not consulted the Rules , but since the leave has was granted , I believe that the motion can be debated .
the Senator Kinsella :
honourable senators , we in are to the part of the business to on the notice of motion of the government .
a notice of motion has was of and he not can there have of debate .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , the Senate has of the agreed , this who change the status of this motion .
he not the is more simply of a notice of motion when the leave has was granted .
however , the he there has of the difference , I am prepared to take the question in advisement and to prepare a statement official .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I have heard the comments of His Hon. and of other senators and I be happy of listen the Senator homme man and of answer to his concerns if this is possible .
the Senator homme man :
honourable senators , I not to not exorbitant of your kindness .
I be short .
I can him to know that I connaîtrai soon the Rules by heart and that we will therefore certainly of the discussions interesting to the future .
the Senator Hays :
honourable senators , contrary to some , I not have not spent many of time to the Rules of this House .
for answer to the comments of the Senator homme man , I soulignerais all of first that the Senate has sat for two weeks recently , be for the two first weeks of the months of September .
the committees of the Senate had sat for two weeks before that .
we have therefore worked , but I not am not sure that that interest the Senator .
the Senator homme man :
I there was .
the Senator Hays :
for this who is of the business of the Senate , our objective today today , which I will during of the next section of the order of the day , is the creation , the more quickly possible , of two committees of the Senate , be the Committee Senate Standing of the transport and of the Communications and the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign .
these committees meeting as the week next the they are created and constitués .
we will therefore to the work in this it .
the balance of the representation to the committees has always fact the subject of discussions between the government and the Opposition .
he there has of the questions who must be debatable , and when I say that , this not is not as a apologize that a simple observation .
by example , I ' since little the as of Leader Deputy of the government to the Senate .
I not have not had the opportunity of speak of the statute to the committees with the senators of this side - this of the Senate .
he there has of other questions , that I would not not to now , who will inevitably raised during of my discussions with the Leader Deputy of the Opposition and with of other senators .
I hope therefore that this period will used of way an in view of with these questions , to that to our return , we be in legislation of proceed immediately to the vote for may the committees .
annoying that we not there parvenions not , the Senate we will to with these questions .
however , we should be fully operational as the next of our return , and the committees will then the meet , elected their chairman and may their first meeting .
the Hon. the Speaker :
pleasure - he to the honourable senators of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
the Senator Hays :
honourable senators , I me ask if I could take the speak now .
this is a day unusual in this sense that we not have not many of Affairs to the order of the day .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the honourable senators consent - they to this that the hon. Senator Hays take the speak now ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator Hays :
I like ask the he would consistent to the Rules of deal of the questions Answers to the Paper under the Order " Rapports of committees " , in the here the reports of the Committee of selection , and then , of the referred to the Committee of the Affairs foreign and to the Committee of the transport of the motions regarding the mandates .
the Senator Kinsella :
honourable senators , the Opposition is that he the is of a good suggestion and that we able proceed and when we will to the order of the day .
the Hon. the Speaker :
pleasure - he to the honourable senators of proceed of this manner when we will to the order of the day ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Association Parliamentary Canadian of the NATO
the delegation Canadian to the session of the spring of the Assembly of the Atlantic North , held to Warsaw , in Poland - Report of the report
the hon. Bill Rompkey :
honourable senators , I have the honour of table the Prime report of the Association Parliamentary Canadian of the NATO , who has represented the Canada during of the session of the spring of the Assembly Parliamentary of the NATO who the is held to Warsaw , in Poland , of the 27 extending May 99 .
the strategies to to answer to the needs of the aboriginal in s of housing
notice of inquiry
the hon. Thelma J . Challifoux :
honourable senators , pursuant to the paragraph 57 ( 2 ) of the Rules , I give notice that , to the next Senate of the Senate , I call the attention of the Senate on the strategies to to answer to the needs of the aboriginal in s of housing .
order DAY THE
the business of the Senate
the hon. John Lynch - Lynch ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , before that we emotions to the order of the day , I you ask , Honour Hon. , of we help , for the corners , to clarify the situation in which we we are anywhere more earlier .
if I understand well , the Leader Deputy of the government has asked the Authorized of to a motion of adjournment .
this Authorized has was granted .
then , the Senator homme man has began to in debate , and some of between we have esteemed that he the was of a question not as be debated , since the Authorized had was granted .
the motion has was proposed then that we were to the " Affairs offered " .
I not to not debate of the motion today today , but we would happy of power know clear when the debate is for to the over of the period of the " Affairs offered " , if as is that he the is .
of any obviously , we know when he not the is not .
I raises this question in the hope that to the future , we not are not to order the minutes of confusion that we come of know .
the Hon. the Speaker :
I thank the hon. Senator Lynch - Lynch of raise the question .
I then him ensure that we we there attaquerons .
I have already asked to the staff of to the precedents to this regard .
this is a point on which we must know clear this that he in is , and I am lead that we will this information to our return .
the Committee of selection
Adopted of the Prime report
the Senate on to the study of the Prime report of the Committee of selection ( is of the Committee Standing of the transport and of the Communications ) , presented to the Senate the 13 October 99 . - ( - hon. Senator MLA ) .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I move that the report be adopted .
the Hon. the Speaker :
pleasure - he to the honourable senators of adopt the motion ?
the hon. Marcel homme man :
honourable senators , if we had had knowledge as the beginning of the explanation of the Senator Hays , I not would not had to speak .
he we has said exactly this that I wanted hear except that he not we the has not said to the advance .
I have now the insurance that , the week next , the committees meeting .
I wish that , as today today , the Committee of the transport and of the Communications who has was up yesterday are to the election of the chairman and starts his business as the week next .
he there has of the will judicial to respect on this very important question .
I am not only call to the senators of the Quebec , but also to those of the East of the Canada .
we will very will by the decision who will taken in this bill of Onex .
that not an not only the Quebec , I not am not paroissial .
I not have not the spirit of clocher .
I hope only that the Committee the will quickly to the task , of so that we can sit the week next to of power have someone something to say before that the Court Supreme not or a decision who risk of have a effect on the future of Air Canada .
the he there has a something who should to to heart to the Liberal , this is well Air Canada .
he was even surprised of have succeeded to to replace the behalf of the Airlines air Trans - Canada by , of Air Canada , a behalf who is by the on became famous in the world around .
( the motion is agreed , and the report is adopted . )
Adopted of the second report
the Senate on to the study of the second report of the Committee of selection ( is of the Committee of the Affairs foreign ) , presented to the Senate the 13 October 99 . - ( - hon. Senator MLA ) .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I move the Adopted of this report .
the Hon. the Speaker :
you pleasure - he , honourable senators , of adopt the motion ?
the hon. Marcel homme man :
I was new Senator .
watch a moment , that can to the subject of debates .
I have therefore took the speak before this auguste assembled .
, my great surprise , human not is party .
this day - that , all the world has listened my interpretation of this section of the Rules .
I have said that the Committee of selection not should not forget that he there has of the senators who are came to the Senate in the hope of well serve their country , including in on to the committees .
I rather " not aligné " .
for the moment , I rather stay " not aligné " .
the problem the worsening , because he there has now five senators who are in the even situation , which three are very it by the work of the committees .
we not have not resolved the problem .
we want to to the world how works a democracy .
we want help to ensure the unity of the Canada .
we want to understand this that the expression " First Nations " means .
we want appreciation of the respect to the minorities religious and other .
yet , we not managing even not to decide this that he must to of five senators vilifying independent .
this is a shame .
be has had use to all they of stratagèmes , these six past years , for avoid of take a decision , but I me refrain of appoint the senators who have trempé in these mired .
I not pretend not that the senators not alignés have more of rights that the senators Lynch - Lynch , Kinsella and the other .
I say by against that we in have as that the senators Carstairs , Graham and the other .
we are all equal , and this is the opinion of the Senator Atkins and particularly of the Senator Lynch - Lynch .
if the senators are all equal , they should power to part of committees .
I not say not that he would their to their Prime choice .
I am prepared to accept that be not me the would not .
in private , well of the people me are reason .
I give now a notice , as the Rules the require .
as Honour Hon. the knows know , when I hear to someone something , I on to the actions .
he there has about five years , I have reminded to the Committee this who the was past .
this year , I have of my speak to some people here , to the Senate , that I not recommencerais not , that I not me lèverais not and that I not would not of speech .
I not say not that I have was failed , but almost .
I not so not to believe that the only fact of say not can draw as of attention .
I had of my speak that I not would not of speech this day - that , to believed understand that we poursuivrions the business yesterday .
I trouvais that this was equitable and I have agreed .
let this who the is past .
the Committee of selection has chosen the members of two committees .
my comments not is human in particular , but I in have enough of the people who not play not Summer - at .
some will losing any credibility .
in the number of the Quorum who is which yesterday , he there has a section sensationnel wrote by a woman that I know since of the years ; I to speak of a new Senator , Ms Finnerty .
in this section , it said that it is very proud of have was appointed to the Senate because that it admire the work of the committees Senate and that the reports iterations and burgeoning who in are derogate .
it quote , between other , the senators Croll and Davey .
it said that the value of the Senate the is in his committees and in the interparliamentary that he assure for better serve the Canada .
you not bringing more this speech very often ; I starts to in have more that enough .
if be me ask of go work for the government of the Quebec , I further .
I have other something to to that of losing my time here .
I am come here because that I think that the Canada is in danger .
I am come because that I believe that we can to to the rest of the world that we can to a difference .
I hates this hypocrisy who we fact say that our country is the better of the world , all in empêchant those who are loans to work of to in so that he the remains .
I understand the First Nations .
this not is not the Quebec who will resulting the apartheid of our country , as is that that so a day .
we must be more attentifs to the needs of the First Nations .
I am very friend with the Nisga' has , in British - British , and I rise their Defence to each time that we in about here .
( 0950 )
honourable senators , that the is - he past here , Tuesday last ?
a Committee of selection has was set .
I have attended yesterday to the first meeting of this Committee and I me did to this that the Committee saying that he not knew too what to of the senators independent , this who not me concern not so for the moment .
the members of the Committee of selection can have a some impact on the business that undertake a Senator to the over of the two next years .
he the is of a Committee important , since , in principle , these nine senators rate to what Committee meeting some senators .
I me am therefore presented to the Senate of the Committee of yesterday for see that a of the nine senators was absent .
he had sent a replacement .
honourable senators , I not nommerai human .
you see therefore to what point I am kind , not is - this not ?
the senators must to their own research for find who was in fault .
when a human accept a work , it must the chamber .
the women who members to the Senate have poses that they remplissaient their duty many better that the majority of the men to the Senate .
I me recall of the sittings that has held the under - Committee of the former Veterans in February 1998 . Ni the Senate or the House of the Commons not sitting to this time - that .
three senators Liberal have attended to the deliberations of the Committee , all of the women .
the leaders of the Senate not have could find a man for sit to this Committee .
I could you quote , word for word , this that the hon. Senator Carstairs has answered to the question that I him have raised .
I him have asked : " Quels were the criteria them ? "
it has said that it was the first to to the question of the representation of the women in a report that it had prepared on the associations parliamentarians in 1993 . - delegations to the time were ensured only of men .
, this about , I remind that I have was replaced by the Senator Finestone for few years .
however , I am still the opportunity of demobilizing my association hurling .
honourable senators , I not know not how or when the House will a decision to the about of these two reports .
each time that the senators are interviewés to the television or reported by a group of students , of journalists or other , that say - we ?
this is true , and I there believe .
however , that should the publicize in the facts .
I not believe not to the as .
if a Senator accept a as to the within of a Committee , he or it should participate to all the meetings for .
we not are not of the members are be said in the corridors : " Présentez - you to the Committee today today and , after two years of studies , he there will a vote final in Committee . "
they not know even not this on what they the you , but they lèvent the with when their leaders lèvent the their .
they not know absolutely not this who the is past .
honourable senators , the words " interparliamentary " and " dedication " are to the way in our speech .
, the over of the two next weeks , start to reflect to the way which we will to the situation of the senators independent .
if we not the do not , I créerai my own Committee of parliamentarians who the interested to the Affairs international .
human not can we in é .
the Hon. the Speaker :
if no other hon. Senator not to take the speak , you pleasure - he , honourable senators , of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed , and the report is adopted . )
visitors of in
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I draw your attention on the presence to the gallery of a delegation of the Senate of the Republic tchèque .
of the Senators :
hear !
transport and Communications
Authorized to the Committee of to the ascertain took in under of the Act on the transport to the Canada for Authorize the held of discussions on the proposal of Purchase of Air Canada by the sector private
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) , pursuant to the notice of the Wednesday 13 October 99 , move :
that , pursuant to the paragraph 47 ( 5 ) of the Act on the transport to the Canada , the ascertain tabled before this House , the 14 September 99 , Motion some carriers air Smokers and some people to negotiate and to conclude any agreement Earl , be obedience to the Committee Senate Standing of the transport and of the Communications ;
that the Committee based , between other witnesses , the Minister of the Transport ;
that the Committee be authorized to to the Electronic Electronic of his deliberations public ; and
that the Committee its the report final to the more later 15 December 99 .
he there has a referred to the Committee .
the case if , I attempt of there to a response .
the hon. Marcel homme man :
honourable senators , the names of the members of the Committee the what , the Committee must now to a meeting of organization in view of elected a chairman then of the swallow for give on to the order of referred .
the hon. Senator knows - he when the Committee will set and prepared to about his business ?
he can now the to to the thing .
this is specifically for that that we are income , for to the beginning of the business of two committees , the a led by the excellent chairman of the Committee of the Affairs foreign and , - this , which the Speaker not is not still determined .
the will it under little ?
the Senator Hays :
honourable senators , the response is simply yes .
I hear to of my better for that the Committee the while to of designate a chairman and that he entreprenne his business , be more later in the day or of here the end of the week .
be me has fact out that , the of the motion of adjourn in two weeks , he was a motion for that the Committee can sit for that the Senate is adjourned .
I will me in load to the end of the period of Presented of the motions .
( the motion is agreed . )
Affairs foreign
Authorized to the Committee of study the new mandate of the Organization of the Treaty of the Atlantic North
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) , pursuant to the notice of the 13 October 99 , move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign be authorized to to for in to report the ramifications for the Canada :
2 . of the - of the peace , particularly the ability of the Canada of there participate under the auspices of not any what body international which the Canada fact part .
that the you received and the evidence heard on the question by the Committee during the first session of the 30 - sixth Parliament be referred to the Committee ;
that the Committee be authorized to sit for the sittings and the congés of the Senate ;
that the Committee be authorized to to the Electronic Electronic of his deliberations public ; and
that the Committee its the report final to the more later 18 November 99 .
the hon. Marcel homme man :
honourable senators , this Committee has played a role very important .
we know all the jurisdiction and the patience tremendous of the chairman , the Senator Stewart .
I am sorry of learn that , - this we leaving in November .
I wish to this that a other man charming that I know very well and that I have seconded to as of Secretary of the Party Liberal for the years 70 not the méprenne not on my about .
he the is of the Senator Lewis .
when I have spoke of interparliamentary to the within of a Committee and of members who the factories in the mêlée to the last minute , I not thought not to the Senator Lewis .
we know all that the Senator Whelan we has barely this was in reason of his retirement and that he has was the replace .
the Senator Lewis , which we know all the intellect , the spirit efficient and the jurisdiction to as of an lawyer , has was chosen for complete the work .
is why , now that I have performance my test , I wish to rectify all this that I have could to of confirmed .
I not thought not to the hon. Senator Lewis when I have spoke of interparliamentary and of the Alternative of the members of committees .
course , he was replace the Senator Whelan , and this is the Senator Lewis who has was chosen .
all the other members of the Committee remain in service , and I me in am cleansing .
if I had fact part of the Committee , I would hoped that the Senator Stewart be re to the Speaker , to that he can complete the work , with the Senator Andreychuk to the vice - Speaker .
is why I have agreed Tuesday of not not take the speak .
we have invested of the hundreds of thousands of $ in this Committee to that he which this study in our behalf - and I wish to this that all the honourable senators the know .
he me seems that natural that the members who have worked to this study be those who remission the work .
I not know not how you made the things in English .
when I would to the school , I was good in some Contents , and bad in of other .
be me said that I excellais in philosophical , including in logical .
the Senator Taylor not should not festival as , because I have fact campaign for him also , for the worse year of his career in Alberta .
I can dévoiler here the behalf of all those who have provided their assistance .
the Senator Taylor :
that destroyed the argument that which you are a be logical .
the Senator homme man :
I thought you convertir to my logical .
I me am many of the training of this Committee .
course , I assisterai the more possible to his sittings , to as volunteer .
honourable senators , I not have not the power or the gloatingly of give of the advice to the Committee , but I hope that this last will all the time necessary , because this is a work difficult .
I hope that we not will not to ask , to the community of November , a other extension under a other chairman , who will beginnings to zero .
I hope that the Committee will all the time necessary for complete the work to that this be that the couronnement of the long years of service of the Senator Stewart to the Senate .
for facilitate the work of the Committee , I will me buttress now to that the Committee can the meet today today .
I could speak of all the sections enrolled to the Paper this morning .
we not should never to a Senate to 9 p.m. because that I am almost to my better earlier the morning , and I am in fact to my better very later the night .
I wish good opportunity to the Senator Stewart in the work in our behalf and I hope that the Committee will the time of complete the work and of to to the Senate a report signed by the Senator .
the hon. John Lynch - Lynch ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
I believe that he is only logical that this paragraph be réinséré in the mandate .
the Committee has given of the hearings to the over which he has heard various officials of the government , he has met of the officers senior of the forces Armed , which some were in Bosnia , various experts of the - of the peace , of the historians , the ambassador of the Canada to the NATO and many of his colleagues , as Political that military .
he has met the Secretary General of the NATO who has left the as recently and of other senior officials .
he has fact many of research and coast many of information , which the major part will to the preparedness of the report final .
the witnesses key who are , this is - to - say who not are not précisés in the mandate , are the Minister of the Affairs foreign , the Minister of the Defence national and the Leader of of - Staff of the Defence , who are the witnesses that he would the more logical of hear before of to end to the hearings .
I move therefore a amendment who , I the hope , receive the support of the Senate .
he suivrait the paragraph 2 of the motion which we are before .
motion of amendment
the hon. John Lynch - Lynch ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
by therefore , I move , seconded by the Senator Kinsella :
that the Committee based , between other witnesses , the Minister of the Affairs foreign , the Minister of the Defence national and the Leader of of - Staff of the Defence .
the hon. Fernand Robichaud ( His Hon. the chairman Acting ) :
pleasure - he to the honourable senators of adopt the motion of amendment ?
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , the motion such that it was during of the session before was enough aggressive , with the names of the ministers and of the other officials that the Committee wanted hear .
these names not are not précisés in the motion current in part to because of the deadline of to the Committee for to report and of the Availability of the ministers and of the other people appointments in the motion original .
I écouterai carefully the arguments of the Senator Stewart , but I believe that this are that the major reasons for which the motion is as it is .
well course , that not means not that the Committee not can not may these people and of other witnesses the he the to .
I not know too why the Committee not has not already heard these people , if this not is that his business have was aborted by the prorogation .
I know what are the intentions of the Committee .
I hope , as the has said the Senator homme man , that the Committee chief the Senator Stewart as chairman .
I have found that the Committee had the intention of planned his business as today today .
he the could very well that all the people denials in the motion original be convoquées and heard .
he the could also , for of the reasons proposing of the will of the Committee or of the Senate , that these people not be not available .
of after this that I understand of the Rules of the Senate , we have a problem if these people not had not was heard the 18 November , be to the date from for the Presented of the report .
this is for that that the motion has was worded as it the is .
the hon. ë A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , in as that sponsor of the motion key , I is that the amendment proposed améliorerait this motion .
I there see a motion friendly .
it not limit not the number of people that the Committee can hear , but it urge , - this to hear , between other , the Minister of the Affairs foreign , the Minister of the Defence national and the Leader of of - Staff of the Defence .
given of the work unfortunately by the Committee during of the last session and that given of the quality of the work , I would very surprised that he not Justice not necessary of hear the three people mentioned for power complete his business .
I am I also with forward of hear the Senator Stewart .
the hon. John B . Stewart :
honourable senators , be there that the decision that will the Committee to the about of his Speaker when he the meeting not will can - be not valid .
however , forget that for the time .
I as with the Senator Lynch - Lynch that the Committee has accomplished a work extremely fouillé and asset .
the work who has was accomplished to the over of the last Senate fact certainly upon the need of hear the Minister of the Affairs foreign .
he fact upon , though least impérativement , the need of hear the Minister of the Defence national .
the even something worth for the Leader of of - Staff of the Defence .
other said , I am fully of agreed with the substance of the motion of amendment of the Senator Lynch - Lynch .
is a other reason for which the Committee should hear these three people .
the speech of the Throne , who has was read more earlier this week , for almost the Committee to hear the ministers .
the government treated a importance increased to the security human in his policy foreign and he oeuvrera for that the representations global will of the progress enemies in the framework of a approach international for the security human .
we have already heard that of the on of the present Minister of the Affairs foreign , but now , this is the Gouverneure general who the said to the behalf of the government .
he is obvious that the Committee will entendreM. Axworthy when he in what to this step of the work .
a other paragraph of the speech of the Throne draw our attention , and I quote to new :
the government continue also of ensure to this that the Forces Canadian be in legislation of support the role of the Canada for help to the security in the world and he the efforcera of increase the ability of the Canadians and of the may of help to ensure the peace and the security in of the country foreign .
he me seems that the human that the Committee must hear that - with is the Minister of the Defence national , the human efficient of the Department .
I not see not how the Committee can to report without have heard these witnesses - the two ministers to all the least .
however , I not can not speak to the behalf of the Committee .
I in just now to the point raised by the Senator Hays .
what that he in be , the date of the 18 November is in the motion .
the problem which the leadership of the government to the Senate is they , this is that the Senate could very well the find in a situation impossible - of a on , a deadline tie and , of other on , the insistance that three representatives in particular be heard .
if this is the case , the deadline should be considered as flexible .
if , we will a large problem .
honourable senators , I think that the Committee would hear to the least two ministers , and probably the human to which be has fact as .
, my notice , that not fact no doubt .
the problem which we are face is , of a some way , a problem of form , to know : can - we the to in the time available ?
if this clause is her , he is very possible that the Committee will ask a extension over - beyond of the 18 November .
is the situation such that I the understand .
the hon. Nicholas W . Taylor :
honourable senators , I like take a time for express my support to the motion of amendment proposed by the other side .
ask to the Committee of write a report without have heard the Minister of the Affairs foreign , the Minister of the Defence national and the Leader of of - Staff - the Senator Stewart , who is a old Nova , will of agreed with I - would a little as eat of the gruau without sel .
me the opposed more earlier this year to the intervention to the Kosovo , I believe that he is important that we understand the reaching who under - parliament our role in the Affairs foreign and the reaching who must be the ours in the future .
honourable senators , I have recently by a speech to the behalf of the hon. David Kilgour , Secretary of state ( America Latin and Africa ) , before a class of graduates in Science political , to Calgary .
Mr. . Kilgour me had of the leave of express my own thoughts .
I have took the freedom of speak in the sense of the about held by the Senator Stewart , to know that the future will conditionné many more by the security personal or human that by the security national .
the most of the war who are victimized to the over of the 20 past years have was of the war civilian and not of the conflict between States .
this is almost as a ascertain in board , in this sense that we we buying to to participate our soldiers .
in the case of the Kosovo , what such of logical could justify the commitment of our forces Armed for other of the women and of the children innocent , of the only fact that a country has elected the bad human for lead the government ?
I know that I take of the opportunity for reopen the matter of the Kosovo , and I not me in apologize not .
however , even if I not am not member of the Committee of the Affairs foreign , I that attend to few sittings and for of the questions to the various witnesses .
in the case of a about also important that the sending of our military for do of the missions of police without the approval of the Parliament , why that not should - he not to the subject of a review thorough ?
the date limit of the 18 November is completely artificielle .
I support of all heart the motion of amendment .
the hon. A . Raynell Andreychuk :
honourable senators , I believe that the motion of amendment would the Committee , because it témoignerait of the will of the Senate of encourage the ministers to the to before the Committee .
I understand that that he can be difficult for a chairman of ask to the ministers of come testify , in reason of their employment of the time responsible , but if that is in the mandate of the Committee , that long more of authority to the chairman .
if , for a reason impérative , a Minister or the Leader of of - Staff not could appear before the Committee , as we have the intention of the invite to the to , he will to the Committee of decide this that he agree of to to this time - that .
will he to ask a extension of our mandate or will - we libérés of this condition for the Tabled of our report ?
I believe that this is and that he must with the problem .
he the is that the words in which the mandate is wording me one , because they clauses more of authority to the chairman .
the Senator Hays :
honourable senators , after have listened the debate , we , of this side - this , accept the amendment can to the Committee of hear these other witnesses .
as to the date of Tabled of the report , in as that chairman of Committee , I not have never had of difficulty to to ask to the Senate a extension of the time by for deal of a question which the Committee had was before , and I am sure that he in will and for the Committee of the Affairs foreign the he has need of a extension .
the hon. Marcel homme man :
honourable senators , we we ourselves in the even situation that in 1984 , when the government has wanted create a Institute for the peace and the security .
all the world said that this was totally impossible .
many were against the creation of a such institute because that , twice - they , this was a gift of departure for the Prime Minister Trudeau .
I not was not of agreed .
, the time , I was chairman of the Committee of the Defence national and of the Affairs External to the House of the Commons and we had 30 members to organizing .
we have worked against the is .
by that , I hear that if we feel that our task is important , we asking to the members of the Committee of work more often .
he not there has nothing of better for ensure the interparliamentary that of sit five days by week .
if the Committee not seat that of time to other , we know of experience that he not will not the time of to all this that he must to , there including write the report .
the gloatingly not is not the a of my explicit , and I me garderais well of to the lesson .
under the Speaker of the hon. Senator Stewart , and in concentrant the services , the Committee could sit for the day and to produce and publicize all the various documents the night .
with of the will , I am course that he will this that the Senator Lynch - Lynch has asked and this that the Senator Stewart would chamber .
however , the he not seat that two or three days , even two after - afternoon by week , this is impossible .
nothing not we from of begin a Monday , in after - afternoon or in evening .
I like really that be respect the deadline to that the report relates the behalf of the Senator Stewart .
if we not managing not to respect the deadline , we able always ask that be the repousse .
if we want have someone something of governments between the hands , he would good , in the legislation of the possible , of to may the report to the date scheduled .
this not is that in all last use that the be should consider to ask a extension of the deadline .
the Senator Lynch - Lynch :
honourable senators , I ask the leave of take of new the speak to this about .
the Hon. the Speaker Acting :
the leave is - it granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator Lynch - Lynch :
I thank also the Senator Hays of to the support of the party to this motion of amendment .
he off , I believe , that the ministers and the Leader of of - Staff of the Defence the réjouiront of power appear before the Committee .
he the is that of a effort martyrdom of party took , who is to help the Canadians to understand the new NATO , the place of the Canada in this organization , and to see if we begin of the resources The for answer to the obligations taken in under of the new NATO , who has ground many more quickly and in a sense very different by report to this that think the most of between we .
the Kosovo not has was that a example of that .
of other examples will can - be , and they into of be still worse .
the Canada must know what place he ' in the new NATO .
I have good hope that the ministers and the Leader of of - Staff of the Defence accueilleront Right the opportunity of we to the point of view of the government , this who can the would useful for the preparedness of the report that many of people , to the Canada and , , expect impatiemment .
the discussions that I have liberty to this about to the abroad me the - .
the study will also of many country more grandchildren to take Position .
the Hon. the Speaker Acting :
honourable senators , the hon. Senator Lynch - Lynch , seconded by the hon. Senator Kinsella , move that be amend the motion in adding this who following after the paragraph No. 2 :
that the Committee based , between other witnesses , the Minister of the Affairs foreign , the Minister of the Defence national and the Leader of of - Staff of the Defence ;
pleasure - he to the honourable senators of adopt the amendment ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Hon. the Speaker Acting :
the vote relates now on the motion key .
pleasure - he to the honourable senators of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion amended is agreed . )
Authorized to the Committee of study the consequences of the union Monetary European
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) , pursuant to the notice of the 13 October 99 , move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign be authorized to study and to to report on the consequences for the Canada of the for of the Union Monetary European and on of other issues other in s of trade and of Investment ;
that the you received and the evidence heard on the question by the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign during the first session of the 30 - sixth Parliament be referred to the Committee ;
that the Committee its the report final to the more later 15 December 99 ; and that the Committee divested the powers necessary to the Electronic of the results of the study contained in the report final and this until to the 24 December 99 ; and
that the Committee be authorized , notwithstanding the practices considered , to table the report with of the Clerk of the Senate , if the Senate not seat not , and that obedience report be being have was tabled to the Senate .
( the motion is agreed . )
the business of the Senate
Authorized to the committees of siégerpendant the adjournments
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the ( 58 ( 1 ) f ) of the Rules , I move :
that , for the office of the its session , the committees special can the meet for the adjournments of the Senate .
the Hon. the Speaker Acting :
the leave is - it granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Hon. the Speaker Acting :
pleasure - he to the honourable senators of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
( the Senate the adjourned to the Tuesday 2 November 99 , to 14 p.m. . )
debates of the Senate ( Hansard )
wondering Session , Session st ,
volume 6,401 , Issue 4
the Tuesday 2 November 99
the hon. Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker
table of the Contents
visitors of in
' ' '
the Late of Greg Moore
tribute
the Late of Mwalimu Julius K . Nyerere , Ancien chairman of the Republic Unie of Tanzanie
tribute
the months of the history of the women
the policy of the tax on the income being to the owners of lots private
the Late of Claude Masson
tribute
the Defence national
the recognition of the missions of - of the peace to the abroad
the languages official
postponement of the date of the Tabled of the report annual of the Commissioner
the crime of ' of people human
the Month of the osteoporosis
Affairs routine
the Commissioner to the protection of the life privacy
Tabled of the report annual
the Clerk of the Senate
Tabled of the accountable annual
Affairs foreign
Tabled of the Prime report of the Committee
the consequences of the Union Monetary European
Presented of the report of the Committee of the Affairs foreign Requesting the Authorized of Services of the staff
Affairs foreign
the Committee of selection
Presented of the third report
the Clerk of the Senate
referred of the accountable annual to the Committee of the Economy Economy , of the Budgets and of the Administration
the adjournment
the speech of the Throne
the is in response - Position end of the debate the eighteenth day of Senate - Notice of motion
the bill on the stopped judicial
bill of bill Amend - First Reading
bill of bill on the protection of the information personal and the documents electronic
first Reading
bill of bill of 99 for the implementation in implement of conventions tax
first Reading
bill of bill on the perquisitions and the saisies international
first Reading
the Act on the Parliament of the Canada
bill of bill Amend - First Reading
the Code criminal
bill of bill Amend - First Reading
bill of bill on the Assent Royal
first Reading
the Act on the Immigration
bill of bill Amend - First Reading
the Code criminal Position Act on the system Correctional and the implementation in freedom under condition
bill of bill Amend - First Reading
the Senate
Tabled of the report of the delegation of the Senate in Republic Kirghize
Affairs foreign
notice of motion to to Authorize the Committee to Services of the staff
notice of motion to to Authorize the Committee to to the Electronic Electronic of his business
review of the policy Canadian antidrogues
notice of motion Motion the training of a Committee Senate Special
the federalism and the globalization
notice of inquiry
review of the Act Canadian on the protection of the environment
notice of motion
office of customerdemands of the environment for the children
notice of motion constitutive
the Defence national
notice of motion to creation of a Committee Senate Special responsible of to the conduct of the staff to the over of the mission in Somalia and the destruction of issues medical of the staff in mission in Croatia
the funding of the education post
notice of inquiry
the Conference on the equality of the women and their participation to the life public
notice of inquiry
the Canadians eminent and their role to the Kingdom - U
notice of inquiry
the access to the data of the census
Presented of Petitions
the business of the Senate
PERIOD PERIOD question
the Agency Canadian of the customs and of the income
the changes of the Benefit tax national for children - - effects on the once
the Nations Nations
the disarmament nuclear - Position policy of the government opposite to the resolution of the New Agenda Coalition
the Defence national
the Alternative of the helicopters Sea King
the West Scotia Scotia Regiment - Position appointment of a Colonel Honorary
the agriculture and the agroalimentaire
the crisis agricultural to the Manitoba and in Saskatchewan - Position visit of the delegation to Ottawa - - anomalies in the statistics
the crisis agricultural to the Manitoba and in Saskatchewan - - very made to the Prime Minister
the crisis agricultural to the Manitoba and in Saskatchewan - - effectiveness of the program of assistance in case of disaster linked to the income agricultural
the crisis agricultural to the Manitoba and in Saskatchewan - Position visit of a delegation to Ottawa - - anomalies in the statistics
the crisis agricultural to the Manitoba and in Saskatchewan - - impact economic of the further of the income agricultural
the crisis agricultural to the Manitoba and in Saskatchewan - Position possible of a program of credit agricultural
Library of the Parliament Langues official due of the regulatory
the committees abiding Standing - Message of the Commons
the statement of the Speaker on the granting of a leave to the over of the Affairs offered and on the event of the 14 October 99
order DAY THE
the speech of the Throne
motion of Adopted of the Adresse in response - Continued of the debate
bill of bill admissibility the taken of some decisions Medical
second Reading - Adjourned of the debate
the strategy of the housing for the aboriginal
inquiry - Adjourned of the debate
the SENATE
the Tuesday 2 November 99
the Senate is met to 14 p.m. , the Speaker the to the Chair .
prayers .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , before of from to the statements of senators , I like you attention the presence to our gallery of few visitors of in .
he there has of first a delegation of the Assembly national of the Republic of Slovenia , part Mr. Janez Podobnik , chairman of the Assembly national , and particular by His Vassilev Bozo Cerar , ambassador of the Republic of Slovenia to the Canada .
, the behalf of all the honourable senators , I you wish the welcome to the Senate of the Canada .
of the Senators :
hear !
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , the other visitor of in to our gallery today today is the Senator John Watson of Australia , chairman of the Committee Senate Special on the Pension of retirement .
you are the by to the Senate Canadian , Senator Watson .
of the Senators :
hear !
' ' '
the Late of Greg Moore
tribute
the hon. Ross Fitzpatrick :
honourable senators , I rise the speak today today for to tribute àGreg Moore , the coureur no of 24 years who is death Sunday after have had a accident with his voiture during of a , in California .
Greg is unborn and has up to Maple Ridge , in British - British , and he was a of the best Pilots of the series CART or of the stretch no Indy .
in 1997 , to the age of 22 years , he has was the more young pilot to win a , in series CART .
unfortunately , well of other prospects the overemphasized to him .
Greg practice more that his runner on the n in as many to his community .
he relay to of many observe of more and he was a such advocate of various causes .
the enthusiasm in the Assistance was real .
a funds to the behalf continue of come in assistance to the his that he posing .
honourable senators , the Canadians not are not loans of forget Greg Moore .
the Late of Mwalimu Julius K . Nyerere , Ancien chairman of the Republic Unie of Tanzanie
tribute
the hon. Donald H . Oliver :
honourable senators , in 1966 , be me had offered the as of vice - dean of the school of right of Dar role - Salaam , in Tanzanie .
I had refused the offer , préférant stay to the Canada where I am became associated to the within of the more great s of lawyers of the region Atlantic .
if I had agreed the as in Tanzanie , I would was the witness original of the miracle democratic orchestré by Julius Nyerere , who has led the country to the independence in the affranchissant of the England in 1961 , and who was the Prime chairman of the Tanzanie , of 1962 to 1985 .
Mr. . Nyerere was loved and vénéré across in the world for the integrity , his honourably and the intellect .
he was considered as the a of the more great men of state of the Africa , to the even as that Nelson Mandela , and he that among the more important leaders of the 20 century .
Mr. . Julius Nyerere had a training of enseignant .
he is came in policy in vertical and he fonda the TANU , be the union national African of the Tanganyika .
he is became Minister in Leader when the TANU remporta the election of 1960 .
Mr. . Nyerere became Prime Minister when the Tanganyika accéda to the independence , in 1961 , but he démissionna as 1962 for the focus on the restructuring of the TANU and on the role that he would play by the on .
he became chairman of a république after the election of 1962 .
given of Mr. Nyerere otherwise the should of the States African , the Tanzanie servit of found to the members of the Congress national of Africa and to of many other groups dirigés by of the rebel of the Zimbabwe , of the Mozambique , of the Angola and of the Uganda .
Nyerere was a as advocate of the culture African local , and his too the more miraculeuse was of give to the Tanzanie the union ethnic .
, the opportunity of a tribute to Nyerere in the framework of the by " As It Happens " , Stephen Lewis , who has served with the Nations Nations in Africa and who was a friend of the former chairman , the is said émerveillé of the way which Nyerere has took a country divided that the affiliation unfashionable and has fact of all of the " Tanzaniens " .
he there is came in by of solid systems of education and of health and in imposing a language common .
he was wounded by the consequences of the Division ethnic : the massacres and the destruction of a public and of a country .
when Nyerere spoke of the catalogued and practice of the assistance to his public , he his " many of emotion , of pain and of understanding " .
not frustrated was of his vision and of the leadership , the Tanzanie would could know of the Dirnfield similar .
the 20 October , of the hundreds of thousands of Tanzaniens have began to affluer to the enter in the streets of the capital Dar role - Salaam to of to a last tribute to a man that the be was across in Tanzanie the " enseignant . "
of the cheering great , but however domains , bordaient the road Work of the airport to the residence Mr. Nyerere stretch in the banlieue and gémissaient to the a of the cercueil .
Julius Nyerere has had right to of the funeral of state in Tanzanie the Thursday 21 October .
this was a man to the vision and to the principles outstanding who will to of many people .
honourable senators , Mary Lou Findley has well summary the situation to the end of the tribute record by the radio English of CBC - Canada in saying that if Nyerere had of a small country , this not was certainly not a small colourful .
I support the last note of Stephen Lewis , who has said that Julius Nyerere was " a man all to fact pleasant " .
the months of the history of the women
the hon. Lucie pin :
honourable senators , October is the Month of the history of the women .
this is a excellent opportunity of saluting the progress made and of consider the obstacles that he we rest to overcome .
we are very thank to the " Famous Five " who have led a long and duration fight in view of to our presence to the House possible .
he there has now 70 years that we have learning the right of be receive as of the people .
well that I not me touch not to this that the be agreed that we were before that we devenions of the people , I know however that be a human not has not still the even negative that be a man .
the number of women revitalizing in this House and in the other place is for I a source of recognition and of your .
their determination , their will , their intellect and their spirit are of the apports are for our country .
yet , how forget that we are still if little ?
in this House , our colleagues masculins continue of we overtake in number , to reason of two for a .
all in we earners of the fact that the Senate of the Canada be the fifth of the world for this who is of the representation " , we not can certainly not we " of the of present of the things .
he rest of many obstacles to the participation of the women in of if many facets of our life economic and policy .
I have talked of many time , in this House and , , the difficulties which the women are confrontées when they the factories in policy .
yet , without a representation get of the women and of the other groups in our institutions political , how can - we we targuer of democracy ?
therefore , to the time where we celebrate this success essential that has was the case " human " and all this that it has " for of the generations of Canadians , sachons that we not have not still reached the purpose .
if the five pictured militantes were with we , they continueraient of the fight for the equality .
because that , today today still , we do of the differences between the people : between the men and the women , between the rich and the poor , between the young and the old , between the majority and the minorities .
and the figures regarding the members of this House and those of the other place continue of publicize these distinctions , until to the day where we accept the fact that a human is a human and nothing of other , or more or least .
the policy of the tax on the income being to the owners of lots private
the hon. Erminie J . Cohen :
honourable senators , I like draw your attention on the concerns of the owners Canadian of lots private to the regard of the policy of the tax on the income and on the need , in their interest , of to in the best will the changes appropriate to the bill .
in my province , the New - Brunswick , a family on six is as of a Editor boisé .
about 425 . lots private to the Canada are to of the families .
in many of provinces , this is of these lots that from a part important of the Contents first necessary for to people the sawmills and the plants of pâte to paper .
the most of the owners of these lots respect their land which they taking be not only because that it contributes to embellir the loss and to serve of habitat to the cash threat , but also because that it provides of the lumber to the industry and assure of the jobs in the small communities rural .
take be of these lots private is a work monumental .
to own a tree to from of a plant at enormous of time , to the least 40 years in the most of the regions of this country .
the a of the ways which the government federal can encourage the promotion and the New of the activities of be deforestation is of apply a good policy of tax on the income .
when the Canadians spend of the money for increase a new case , they can the first years déduire the losses of their other sources of income in the legislation where they can prove to Revenue Canada that they the expect to of the " profits reasonable " of their new business .
the owners of lots private , them , not can not the to .
when a and agricultural on of a generation to a other , the tax on the be in capital is order as that the family is the firm .
when a Editor boisé on of a as to a other the other , the tax to pay is often enormous .
if the new as not has not of income for pay the tax in question , he can be forced of from the money necessary of the Editor , this who well often means that he must cut the trees .
( 1420 )
why aside to the owners of lots private a treatment different of , which have right the other Canadians ? Position something the ask , me seems he , by the fact that the wording of the Act of the tax on the income is such that a business who put until to 40 years for throughout of the profits thrown simply between the mailles of the depend .
of by the wording present , the Act of the tax on the income not can not to that of the realities of the practices of the management forest and of the will necessary for that a and can throughout of the profits .
the associations of owners of lots private examining the question since 1988 .
they forward that the resistance to the change to which they have was face during of the first years has fact place , to the Department of the Finance and to the Department of the Revenue national , to a understanding reasonable of the problem .
the question has was had took by different committees of the House of the Commons , by the NRTEE NRTEE national on the environment and the economy and , recently , by our own under - Committee responsible of study the forest boréale .
honourable senators , he we must obtain the cooperation of the owners of lots private if we want respect the commitments that we have took in the Protocol of Kyoto and in the bill announced of legislation on the cash in calling to the Canada , and their give a policy tax based , who the encourage to reboiser their settlements and to accelerate of efforts for well manage their Lands .
he is great time that we confront this problem .
I ask urge to the Minister of the Finance of make to well this bill .
the Late of Claude Masson
tribute
the hon. Fernand Roberge :
Claude was a man simple , well in his peau , always of good on and respected by his our .
he was also a man of faith , committed socially , a professional , short , a man copy .
the departure is a great loss for Position Presse and the community centres Quebec , and that for the society in General .
we are our sympathy to his family and to the families of the other hearted in this terrible accident .
the Defence national
the recognition of the missions of - of the peace to the abroad
the hon. Douglas Roche :
honourable senators , I have found strange that , during of his first visit official to the Canada , Lord George Robertson , the new Secretary General of the NATO , criticism the Estimates military of the Canada then that he ignorait apparently that the troops Canadian who used the interests of the peace in the world are now more many that they not the have was since the War of Korea .
the forces Canadian of - of the peace rely among the more prééminentes and the more effective to the world .
in this months of November , impact - in for to tribute in particular to the 108 Canadians who have lost the life in screening the security and the peace international to the over of the 40 past years .
their contribution to the soulagement of the suffering human is invaluable .
the Canadians know that the - of the peace is a over there of our country .
we must well understand that our forces Armed play a role important in the promotion of our interests to the abroad , what that be the way which we the définissons .
working in of the conditions astreignantes dépassant all this that be can the imagine and dividing of their family for of very long periods , the members of the forces Canadian of - of the peace are been in view of change really the things and of ensure to the promotion and to the - of a real security .
of the Canadians the are fought and are dead for defend the security and the freedom .
our efforts continuels in view of ensure the security in the world are a tribute to their sacrifice and - this highest tradition .
our forces of - of the peace not deserve not least .
honourable senators , for this who is of the funds spent to the Reconstruction in the Balkans , where the War not has left that rubble , and in of other regions of the world , who must the back of the consequences of the War , the Canada not has to receive of lessons of people .
in the operations of combat , this not is not that the Canada expenditure too little , this is that the other country , there including the major country of the NATO , spend too .
the languages official
postponement of the date of the Tabled of the report annual of the Commissioner
the hon. Jean - Robert Gauthier :
honourable senators , the 4 October last , the Commissioner to the languages official what , in a letter material to our chairman , the intention of until the Tabled of the report annual , of manner to cover now the period correspondent to the year tax rather that to the year civil .
the Act on the languages official not is not clear on the guideline of the Tabled of this report annual .
however , the section 37 of the Act of interpretation unless that the concept of year the over on any period of 12 months .
this decision away the communities linguistic minority and the Committee Joint Standing of the House of the Commons and of the Senate of the languages official of a report and of a tool very asset and very important .
the crime of ' of people human
the hon. A . Raynell Andreychuk :
honourable senators , across in the world , of the people the are those , contraindre , " and sell in the framework of this that be Order populairement the " with World of the esclaves " .
the victims are usually of the women , of the daughters and of the boys who are forced of live in of the situations of and sexual and economic to the profit of recruteurs , of trafiquants and of organizations criminal .
in 1997 , the UN averted at million the number of the people who were victims of a situation ' to the has World , which the benefit net could to 7 billion of $ by year .
the Canada not is not to the from of such activities .
the fall last , be has discovered to Toronto a system of prostitution , between other , set of women Asian .
the ' of people human , of even that the many activities which the Adieu this such of crime , as the prostitution , the séquestration and the abuse , are all of the activities illégales to the Canada .
despite the conventions international prevented the with of the esclaves human , this such of activity criminal is in increase .
that the ask in part because that he is relatively easy of to the ' of people human .
often , the people by the subject of ' not the will not that that they are in danger and traversent volunteers the border for enter in a other country .
he is least likely that the members of the peace do of the authorize in the case of ' of people human that in the case of smuggling of drug and of weapons to gun .
he is tragic of see that the great case that the be fact of the young assure a ask Increase for to of new recruits in the women more young and the children .
the ' of people human its a risk for the security , because the profits made through to the and of people human used often to fund the organizations criminal .
in Asia , in the region of the Mékong , the ' of the people human rivalise now of interest with the ' of drug to the be of the crime organized .
of even , in of other regions instables , as in the former Union Soviet , the women and the children are particularly vulnerable to this regard .
the Canada must work to prevent some organizations of the serve of the Canada as of a place of raising of funds for the funding of activities criminal .
in 1949 , the Assembly general of the Nations Nations approuvait the Convention for the repression and the abolition of the with of the people human and of the and of the prostitution of is .
the Canada not has always not ratified this convention in despite of the fact that it be into in effect in 1949 .
in June 2000 , be marks the fifth anniversary of the Declaration of Beijing .
the a of the objectives strategic of the Program of action of Beijing is of eliminate the with of the women and of help the victims of the violence properly to the prostitution and to the with .
he is essential that the Canada is of ratify and of apply this convention international .
fault of what , the Canada manquerait to his commitments to the regard of the Nations Nations and , who more is , manquerait to his commitments to the regard of these million of people who are in danger .
I urge the government of the Canada and the senators to see to this that the Canada obligations this convention before the fifth anniversary of the Declaration of Beijing .
the Month of the osteoporosis
the hon. Vivienne Poy :
honourable senators , November is the Month of the osteoporosis to the Canada .
the osteoporosis is a illness débilitante caractérisée by a low so prevalence , who system a more great fragilité of the for and of the risks of fractures .
the fact that this illness be day in the people seniors has of the consequences serious for our country .
about 1.4 million of Canadians suffering now of osteoporosis and 2 million of more into of in be suffering a day .
the osteoporosis Strike a woman on four of more steep years and a man on eight in this even group of age .
the treatment of the osteoporosis costs 1.3 billion of $ by year to the Canada .
the education and the prevention can to a difference his in this who with the osteoporosis .
in reason of the lack of education and of education public , many of people learn that they are afflicted of osteoporosis when he is already too later .
the reduction of the density prevalence the product can to the over of the years , well before of become apparent .
when a fracture the product , the difficulty is already carried and can the publicize by of the lésions to the colonels vertébrale , to the hanche or to the poignet .
the osteoporosis is almost always irréversible .
the fractures ostéoporotiques are generally débilitantes and depleted our the quality of life of the people affected .
today today , we in know more that never on the prevention of the osteoporosis , a illness considered in the world around as a important problem of health .
we may of the for solid as the first years of the life is a of the things the more important that we can to .
he is also important of we ensure of have enough of calcium in our regime food , of even that of to regularly of the year , particularly of the sports of implementation in for as the been , the , , the as and the badminton .
he there now of the tests who allow a Breast signal of the people to risk .
we can reduce substantially the number of people who développeront the osteoporosis if we take of the measures of prevention and of education .
the Canada must to evidence of leadership in élaborant a framework comprehensive of prevention , of diagnosed and of treatment of this illness incapacitante .
the such of leadership which I about is consistent to the strategy stated in the speech of the Throne , the months last , and Requesting the creation of instituts Canadian of research in health .
these instituts is to meet of the researchers who the interested to the health and to establish of the priorities in s of research Joint .
the osteoporosis must be among our priorities in s of research in health if we want improve the quality of life of the Canadians , the of particularly the ageing of the public to the over of the next decades .
the rate of osteoporosis can be substantially reduced if we envisageons of the measures of prevention to long term .
honourable senators , to of increase the education to this important question of health , I you urge all , and that our colleagues of the House , to take the thé with I and the representatives of the Corporation of the osteoporosis of the Canada , tomorrow after - afternoon , between 16 p.m. and 18 p.m. , in the Room secession - C of the Block of the Centre .
Affairs routine
the Commissioner to the protection of the life privacy
Tabled of the report annual
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I have the honour of table the report annual of the Commissioner to the protection of the life privacy for the period the ending 31 March 99 .
the Clerk of the Senate
Tabled of the accountable annual
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I have the honour of you inform that , pursuant to the section 133 of the Rules of the Senate , the Clerk of the Senate has tabled on the Board a of detailed of his revenues and of his Payments for the year financial 1998 - 99 .
Affairs foreign
Tabled of the Prime report of the Committee
the hon. John B . Stewart :
( the text of the report is to the Journals of the Senate of today today . )
the consequences of the Union Monetary European
Presented of the report of the Committee of the Affairs foreign Requesting the Authorized of Services of the staff
the hon. John B . Stewart , chairman of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign , its the report following :
the Tuesday 2 November 99
the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign has the honour of to the
second REPORT
your Committee , who has was authorized by the Senate Thursday 14 October 99 , pursuant to the section 86 ( 1 ) p.m. ) of the Rules , to study and to to report on the consequences for the Canada of the for of the Union Monetary European and on of other issues other in s of trade and of Investment ask respectfully that the Committee be authorized to clerical the services of lawyers , of counsel technical and of all other staff felt necessary to the for of the inquiry .
pursuant to the section Guidelines of the Guidelines for the funding of the Comités of the Senate , the budget presented to the Committee Standing of the Economy Economy , of the Budgets and of the Administration and that the report the there Procedural , are Guidelines to the this report .
respectfully submitted ,
the chairman ,
JOHN B . STEWART
( the text of the as is to the Journals of the Senate of today today , as " A " , p
72 )
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when consideration - we this report ?
( on the motion of the Senator Stewart , the study of the report is placed to the order of the day of the next Senate . )
Affairs foreign
the amendment of the mandate of the Organization of the Treaty of the Atlantic North - Presented of the report budget of the Committee regarding the study
the hon. John B . Stewart , chairman of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign , its the report following :
the Tuesday 2 November 99
the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign has the honour of to the
third REPORT
your Committee , who has was authorized by the Senate Thursday 14 October 99 , pursuant to the section 86 ( 1 ) p.m. ) of the Rules , to to for in to report the ramifications for the Canada :
of the amendment made to the mandate of the Organization of the Treaty of the Atlantic North ( NATO ) and to the role of the Canada in the NATO since the disbanding of the NATO of Warsaw , of the end of the War Cold and of the into recent in the NATO of the expulsions , of the Poland and of the Republic tchèque ; and
2 . of the - of the peace , particularly the ability of the Canada of there participate under the auspices of not any what body international which the Canada fact part , ask respectfully that the Committee be authorized to clerical the services of lawyers , of counsel technical of all other staff felt necessary , and to the adjourn to across the Canada and to the abroad to the for of the inquiry .
pursuant to the section Guidelines of the Guidelines for the funding of the Comités of the Senate , the budget presented to the Committee Standing of the Economy Economy , of the Budgets and of the Administration and that the report the there Procedural , are Guidelines to the this report .
respectfully submitted ,
the chairman ,
JOHN B . STEWART
( the text of the as is to the Journals of the Senate of today today , as " B " , p
78 )
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when consideration - we this report ?
( on the motion of the Senator Stewart , the study of the report is placed to the order of the day of the next Senate . )
the Committee of selection
Presented of the third report
the hon. Léonce MLA , chairman of the Committee of selection , its the report following :
the Tuesday 2 November 99
the Committee of selection has the honour of to the
third REPORT
pursuant to the sections 85 ( 1 ) has ) and 85 ( 2 ) of the Rules of the Senate , your Committee informed the Senate that he the is met for discuss of the appointment of a Senator to the as of Speaker to as " .
your Committee not has not took of decision to this about and he will report to the Senate certified .
respectfully submitted ,
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when consideration - we this report ?
( on the motion of the Senator MLA , the study of the report is placed to the order of the day of the next Senate . )
the Clerk of the Senate
referred of the accountable annual to the Committee of the Economy Economy , of the Budgets and of the Administration
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
the Hon. the Speaker :
the leave is - it granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
the adjournment
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the ( 58 ( 1 ) p.m. ) of the Rules , I move :
that , when the Senate adjourns today today , he remains adjourned until to tomorrow , the Wednesday 3 November 99 , to 13 p.m. 30 .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the leave is - it granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
the speech of the Throne
the is in response - Position end of the debate the eighteenth day of Senate - Notice of motion
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I give notice that tomorrow , the Wednesday 3 November 99 , I move :
that the deliberations to the order of the day for the resuming of the debate on the motion Honourable to the Adopted of a Adresse in response to the speech of the Throne , by by His Excellency the Gouverneure general before the two Houses of the Parliament , the remission the eighteenth day of Senate where the order will was debated .
the bill on the stopped judicial
bill of bill Amend - First Reading
the Hon. the Speaker announcement that he has received of the Commons a message with of the bill of bill C - 7 , Act amend the Act on the stopped judicial and a other bill in make .
( the bill of bill is read a first time . )
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when read - we this bill of bill a second time ?
( on the motion of the Senator Hays , the second Reading of the bill of bill is placed to the order of the day of the Thursday 4 November 99 . )
bill of bill on the protection of the information personal and the documents electronic
first Reading
the Hon. the Speaker announcement that he has received of the Commons a message with of the bill of bill C - 6 , Act to to facilitate and to promote the trade Electronic in perpetuate the information personal collected , used or releases in some circumstances , in for the use of means electronic for bring or like of the information and of the transactions and in amend the Act on the evidence to the Canada , the Act on the were regulatory and the Act on the review of the laws
( the bill of bill is read a first time . )
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when read - we this bill of bill a second time ?
( on the motion of the Senator Hays , the second Reading of the bill of bill is placed to the order of the day of the Thursday 4 November 99 . )
bill of bill of 99 for the implementation in implement of conventions tax
first Reading
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) its the bill of bill S - 3 , Act an in implement a agreed , of the conventions and of the protocoles conclude between the Canada and the Kyrghizistan , the Lebanon , the Algeria , the Bulgaria , the Portugal , the Ouzbékistan , the Syria , the Japan and the Luxembourg , in view of avoid the duplicates Socialist and of prevent the evasion tax in s of taxes on the income .
( the bill of bill is read a first time . )
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when read - we this bill of bill a second time ?
( on the motion of the Senator Hays , the second Reading of the bill of bill is placed to the order of the day of the Thursday 4 November 99 . )
bill of bill on the perquisitions and the saisies international
first Reading
the hon. Pierre Claude Nolin its the bill Bill S - 4 , Act incorporate the Authorized judicial pre to the requests of perquisitions or of saisies to the outside of the Canada before be made to a organization or authority foreign or international .
( the bill of bill is read a first time )
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when read - we this bill of bill a second time ?
( on the motion of the Senator Nolin , the second Reading of the bill of bill is placed to the order of the day of the Thursday 4 November 99 . )
the Act on the Parliament of the Canada
bill of bill Amend - First Reading
the hon. Jerahmiel S . Grafstein its the bill Bill S - 5 , Act amend the Act on the Parliament of the Canada ( similarly official of the Parliament ) .
( the bill of bill is read a first time . )
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when read - we this bill of bill a second time ?
( on the motion of the Senator Grafstein , the deuxièmelecture of the bill of bill is placed to the order of the jourdu Thursday 4 November 99 . )
the Code criminal
bill of bill Amend - First Reading
the hon. Donald H . Oliver :
honourable senators , I have the honour of to , to the step of the first Reading , the bill of bill S - 6 , Act amend the Code criminal relatively to the harassment criminal and to of other issues other .
this bill of bill is identical to the bill of bill S - 17 who is death to the Paper to the end of the last session Parliamentary .
( the bill of bill is read a first time . )
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when read - we this bill of bill a second time ?
the Senator Oliver :
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the ( 57 ( 1 ) f ) of the Rules , I move that the second Reading of the bill of bill be placed to the order of the day of the next Senate of the Senate .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , the leave is - it granted ?
the hon. Anne C . Cools :
could - I know why he must ask the leave ?
the Hon. the Speaker :
the leave not is not granted .
the Senator Cools :
honourable senators , I am oddly .
I am prepared to give the leave if I can know why .
when the parrains of a bill of bill are the leave of the Senate , the senators should know why they the are .
the Hon. the Speaker :
hon. Senator Cools , I regret , but he not can not there have of debate on the motion .
however , if this is a question of information , this is all to fact legitimate , if the Senate is of agreed .
we have already had of the situations where a Senator asked the leave and a other Senator wanted know why .
honourable senators , souhaitez - you that the question be raised ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator Oliver :
be has heard a sure number of witnesses and be has times of the evidence .
I like be in legislation of speak of that , of say if yes or not be can consider that these evidence have already was heard in the framework of the study of the bill of bill that I just of to .
I like to that tomorrow .
the Senator Cools :
of agreed .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the leave is - it granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( on the motion of the Senator Oliver , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the ( 57 ( 1 ) f ) of the Rules , the second Reading of the bill of bill is placed to the order of the day of the next Senate . )
bill of bill on the Assent Royal
first Reading
the hon. John Lynch - Lynch ( Leader of the Opposition ) its the bill of bill S - 7 , Act Current to the guideline of granting by the Gouverneure general , to the behalf of Majesty Majesty , of the Assent Royal to the bills of bill adopted by the Houses of the Parliament .
( the bill of bill is read a first time . )
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when read - we this bill of bill a second time ?
( on the motion of the Senator Lynch - Lynch , the second Reading of the bill of bill is placed to the order of the day of the Senate of the Thursday 4 November 99 . )
the Act on the Immigration
bill of bill Amend - First Reading
the hon. Ron Ghitter its the bill of bill S - 8 , Act amend the Act on the Immigration .
( the bill of bill is read a first time . )
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when read - we this bill of bill a second time ?
( on the motion of the Senator Ghitter , the second Reading of the bill of bill is placed to the order of the day of the séancedu Thursday 4 November 99 ) .
the Code criminal Position Act on the system Correctional and the implementation in freedom under condition
bill of bill Amend - First Reading
the Hon. the Speaker announcement that he has received of the Commons a message with of the bill of bill C - 247 , Act amend the Code criminal and the Act on the system Correctional and the implementation in freedom under condition ( disappointment consecutive ) .
( the bill of bill is read a first time . )
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when read - we this bill of bill a second time ?
( on the motion of the Senator Cools , the second Reading of the bill of bill is placed to the order of the day of the séancedu Tuesday 9 November 99 . )
the Senate
Tabled of the report of the delegation of the Senate in Republic Kirghize
the hon. Nicholas W . Taylor :
Affairs foreign
notice of motion to to Authorize the Committee to Services of the staff
the hon. John B . Stewart :
honourable senators , I give notice that tomorrow , the Wednesday 3 November 99 , I move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign be authorized to clerical the services of counsel , technical , employees of office or other elements necessary for to the bills of bill , the substance of the bills of bill and the forecasts budget who him have was removed .
notice of motion to to Authorize the Committee to to the Electronic Electronic of his business
the hon. John B . Stewart :
honourable senators , I give notice that tomorrow , the Wednesday 3 November 99 , I move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign be authorized to to the with of his deliberations public by the media of information electronic , in disruption the least possible his business .
review of the policy Canadian antidrogues
notice of motion Motion the training of a Committee Senate Special
the hon. Pierre Claude Nolin :
honourable senators , I give notice that , the Thursday 4 November 99 , I move :
that a Committee Special of the Senate be up to of reassess the laws and the political Canadian antidrogues , of consult been the public Canadian for determine the needs speak of the different regions of the country more particularly that where the problems social from to the ' and to the use of the drugs addressed are the more overcoming , of develop of the proposals for according any information Current to the policy Canadian antidrogues and , finally , of produce of the recommendations for in come to the Adopted of a strategy antidrogues implementation to the point by and for the Canadians encouraged all the levels of government to work in close cooperation to the reduction of the barristers from to the consumption of drugs addressed .
without that this who following has for effect of limit the mandate , that the Committee be authorized to :
- review the approach agreed by the government federal for combat the consumption of drugs addressed to the Canada , the effectiveness as way of reduce the effects of the consumption of stupéfiants and the legislation in which the application is fair ;
- develop a policy national of reduction of the barristers to of relieve the impacts negative of the consumption of drugs addressed to the Canada and to of the recommendations on the way of apply this policy , including the possible of consider before all the use and the abuse of drugs as a problem socio - sanitaire ;
- study the models of reduction of the barristers adopted by of other country and determine , the he there would place , of the apply some or contributor , to the Canada ;
- to the role and the obligations international who describes to the Canada in under of the conventions of the Nations Nations on the stupéfiants , of the Declaration interpreted of the animated of the man and of of other treaties other to of determine if these treaties the is to take of the measures other that the from criminal and the pénalisation of the Offenders to the has international ;
- urge the effects of the fibre on the health and study the question of know if the employment of political alternatives to the about of the use of the fibre conduirait to a increase of the use and of the abuse to short and to long term ;
- study the possible that the government logjam of the power of regulatory that him authority the Act on the contraventions as way Supplementary of apply a policy of reduction of the barristers as he is of use in of other juridictions ;
- study any other question Current to the policy Canadian antidrogues that the Committee Justice appropriate for chamber the mandate .
that the Committee Special be composed of five senators and that the quorum be of three members ;
that the Committee has the power of to appear of the people and of produce of the documents , of hear of the witnesses , of to report of time to other and of to print to the day the day documents , you and evidence that the instructions of the Committee ;
that the you received and the evidence heard during of the review of the bill of bill C - 8 , Act to on the regulatory of some drugs and of their observation and that of other marine by the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional during the second session of the 30 fifth Parliament be referred to the Committee ;
that the Committee be authorized to Authorize , the he the Justice timely , the television , the appropriate and the Electronic by the through of the media electronic of the all or of a part of his deliberations and of the information that he Canada ;
that the Committee be authorized to sit for the adjournments of the Senate in under of the paragraph 95 ( 2 ) of the Rules of the Senate ;
that the Committee its the report final to the more later three years after the date of his creation .
the federalism and the globalization
notice of inquiry
the hon. é - A .
honourable senators , I give notice that , the Tuesday 9 November 99 , I will to the attention of the Senate , to the light of the debates who have had place to the opportunity of the Forum of the fédérations , the great principles of the federalism modern .
review of the Act Canadian on the protection of the environment
notice of motion
the hon. Mira Spivak :
honourable senators , I give notice that , the Thursday 4 November 99 , I move :
that the Senate urge the government to about on - the - report the review of the Act Canadian on the protection of the environment and to give the first step of this review to the Committee Senate Standing of the energy , of the environment and of the resources natural .
office of customerdemands of the environment for the children
notice of motion constitutive
the hon. Mira Spivak :
honourable senators , I give notice that , the Wednesday 3 November 99 , I move :
that the Senate urge the government to tough a office of customerdemands of the environment for the children , be a body stand responsible of promote the protection of the children against the risks environmental .
the Defence national
notice of motion to creation of a Committee Senate Special responsible of to the conduct of the staff to the over of the mission in Somalia and the destruction of issues medical of the staff in mission in Croatia
the hon. John Lynch - Lynch ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I give notice that , the 16 November 99 , I move :
that a Committee Special of the Senate be set to of investigate and of to report on two questions important who touch the conduct of the chain of command of the Forces Canadian , as in the operations on the into that to the Headquarters General of the Defence national : this is - to - say his reaction to the problems operational , Deployment and administrative who the are manifestés to the over of the deployment of forces in Somalia , in the legislation where these questions not have not was depth by the Board of inquiry on the deployment of the Forces Canadian in Somalia ; and the allegations that which of the troops Canadian have was out to of the marine toxins in Croatia between 1993 and 1995 of even that the allegations of destruction of the issues medical of military forwarded in Croatia ;
that the Committee , in the review of the questions previous , be authorized to question of the witnesses who , that him , could help to the conduct of the inquiry , including , but not exclusively :
the present Minister of the Defence , as to the two questions spécifiées ;
2 . of former ministers of the Defence , as to the two questions spécifiées ;
4 . the Leader of s by intérim of the Minister of the Defence national to the time , as to the incidents s in Somalia ;
6 . the ' Special of the Minister of the Defence national to the time ( J .
Gordon ) , as to the incidents s in Somalia ;
7 . the people to served the as of Justice - lawyer General for the period concernée , as to the incidents s in Somalia ;
8 . the Justice - lawyer General Deputy - Litiges to the time , as to the incidents s in Somalia ; and
9 . the Leader of of - Staff of the Defence and the under - Leader of of - Staff of the Defence to the time , as to the two questions spécifiées .
that seven senators appointed by the Committee of selection confrontation the duties of members of the Committee Special , and that three are the quorum ;
that the Committee be authorized to may of the people , to to produce of the documents and of the issues , to hear of the witnesses Connolly , to to report of time to other and to to print to the day the day documents and evidence that the instructions of the Committee ;
that the Committee be authorized to Authorize , the he the Justice timely , the television and the appropriate of the all or of a part of his deliberations ;
that the Committee be authorized to clerical the services of counsel , professionals , technical , employees of office or of other people necessary , for the help to make the study ;
that the parties political represented to the Committee Special receive a allowance for the contribution of experts to the business of the Committee ;
that the Committee be authorized to travel to the within and to the outside of the Canada ;
that the Committee be authorized to sit for the sittings and the congés of the Senate ;
that the Committee please the report a year to the more after his training and that , if the Senate not seat not to the time where the report is tabled , , - this be considered as to was tabled the day where he is has to the Clerk of the Senate .
the funding of the education post
notice of inquiry
the hon. Norman K . Atkins :
honourable senators , I give notice that , the Thursday 4 November 99 , I call the attention of the Senate on the funding of the education post to the Canada , particularly the part of the funding that supportent the students , in view of develop of the political who viseront to amoindrir the burden of the debts of the students to the level post to the Canada .
the Conference on the equality of the women and their participation to the life public
notice of inquiry
the hon. Lorna Milne :
honourable senators , I give notice that , the Thursday 4 November 99 , I call the attention of the Senate on my participation recent to the 70e anniversary of the case " human " , in the framework of the Conference on the equality of the women and their participation to the life public to the Canada and to the Kingdom - U , who the is held the 21 and 22 October 99 , to London , in England .
the Canadians eminent and their role to the Kingdom - U
notice of inquiry
the hon. Anne C . Cools :
honourable senators , pursuant to the paragraphs 56 ( 1 ) , 56 ( 2 ) and 57 ( 2 ) of the Rules , I give notice that Thursday next , the 4 November 99 , I call the attention of the Senate on :
has ) the people valour to the Canada who have sat to the House of the Commons of the Kingdom - U , there including the Navan of the Ontario Edward Blake , Minister of the Justice of the Canada of 1875 to 1877 and Leader of the Party Liberal of the Canada of 1880 to 1887 , the Navan of the New - Brunswick the very hon. Bonar Law , Prime Minister of the Kingdom - U of 1922 to 1923 , and the Navan of the Ontario Sir Bryant Irvine , vice - chairman of the House of the Commons of the Kingdom - U of 1976 to 1982 ;
b ) the people valour to the Canada who have sat to the House of the Lords of the Kingdom - U , there including the trèshon. Richard B . Bennett , Prime Minister of the Canada of 1930 to 1935 , and Lord Beaverbrook , Minister of the Kingdom - U in 1918 and of 1940 to 1942 ;
c ) the British of birth Regarding to the Kingdom - U or in the dominions and colonies who have sat to the Senate and to the House of the Commons of the Canada , there including the trèshon. John Turner , Prime Minister in 1984 and Leader of the Opposition Liberal of 1984 to 1990 , and I - even , Senator black in year born in the Antilles British ;
d ) the people of citizenship Canadian who have fact part of the Council private of the Kingdom - U , there including the first ministers of the Canada , the judges in Leader of the Court Supreme and some ministers Canadian which the Leader of the government to the Senate of 1921 to 1930 and of 1935 to 1942 , the trèshon. Senator Raoul Dandurand , who has was appointed to the Council private of the Kingdom - U in 1941 ;
e ) the resolution Nickle of 1919 , a motion of the House of the Commons of the Canada in view of a is to Majesty Majesty the king George V , and the about that the Prime Minister R . B . Bennett has held in 1934 to the about :
" this was also inefficient in right that possible .
not only this was inefficient , but this was also , I regret of the say , a affront to the sovereign him - even .
not any what lawyer of right constitutional or anyone the give the only of study this question the in makes well that . " ;
f ) the about that the Prime Minister R . B . Bennett has held in 1934 in a letter to the member J . R . MacNicol :
" as that I resterai citizen of the arid British and assumption about of the king , I hear recognize to the sovereign the prerogative of recognize the services of his issues . "
g ) the many distinguished Canadians who have since 1919 received of the honours of the king or of the Queen of the Canada , there including the assembled to the order of the chevalerie in 1934 of Sir Lyman Duff , Justice in Leader of the Court Supreme of the Canada , in 1935 of Sir Ernest MacMillan , musicien , in 1986 of Sir Bryant Irvine , Parliamentary , in 1994 of Sir Neil Shaw , industrial , and in 1994 of Sir Conrad Swan , ' of the Prime Minister Pearson to the about of the flag national of the Canada ;
p.m. ) the many distinguished Canadians who have received 646 honours and travail of souverains foreign not British and not Canadian between 1919 and February 1929 ;
i ) the Position legal and constitutional of the Canadians of birth and of citizenship regarding their ability or their inaptitude to sit to the House of the Lords and or to the House of the Commons of the Kingdom - U , including the Canadians domiciliés to the Kingdom - U and beyond of the double citizenship of the Canada and of the Kingdom - U ;
j ) the Position legal and constitutional of the Canadians domiciliés to the country or to the abroad regarding their right of receive of the honours and of the distinctions of their own sovereign , the Queen Elizabeth II of the Canada , and that their right of receive of the honours and of the distinctions of souverains other that the their , there including the sovereign of the France the honour of the Order Alaska of the Legion of honour ;
k ) the honours , the distinctions and the travail who not are not héréditaires as the peerage to life , the assembled to the order of the chevalerie and the levels military and of chevalerie ;
l ) the recommendation by the Prime Minister British Tony Blair to Majesty Majesty the Queen Elizabeth II to of appoint as member not héréditaire of the House of the Lords Conrad Black , a distinguished publisher and entrepreneur Canadian and Colonel Honorary of the Governor General' s Foot Guards of the Canada .
the access to the data of the census
Presented of Petitions
the hon. Lorna Milne :
honourable senators , I have the honour of to a petition of the Ontario Genealogical Society who has was signed by per people and who ask in part this :
... the petitioners concurrence the Parliament of adopt a bill to of preserve the data of the marked of after 1901 , of the withdraw of the Archives national and of to these data and those of the marked ultérieurs to the clause of the public to the across of 92 years , this who is now consistent to the many provisions legislation on the protection of the information personal and to the will now in effect .
the business of the Senate
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I will a statement more later today today to the about of the use to the Rules that the Senator Lynch - Lynch has raised the other day .
however , I like before this opportunity for attention some problems that with our Rules .
however , I not think not that this be this that the Senate wish .
I to simply attention that he must correct these anomalies in our Rules .
PERIOD PERIOD question
the Agency Canadian of the customs and of the income
the changes of the Benefit tax national for children - - effects on the once
the hon. Donald H . Oliver :
honourable senators , my question the is to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
the spring last , I have drew the attention of the Senate on a is of structure of the Prestation tax national for children in the case of the families to low income to more of three children .
, the intention of the Leader of the government , I will with of new the problem .
in 2001 , the government will eliminate phase the Prestation tax national for children that a rate of clawback of 11 per for the families to a child , of 19,7p. per for the families to two children and of 27,6p. per for the families of three children or more .
let this who what to a mother Leader of family of four children who in to Halifax , in Nova - Nova , and which the income family is of 30 . $ , if it has the possible of gain per $ in by of the p.m. additional , a time that the the changes will was Regional to the Benefit in 2001 .
honourable senators , I will you read few figures .
I have already has copy of these figures to the Leader for that he can me follow .
he there has then the appropriation of tax subordonnés to the income .
honourable senators , in the speech of the Throne , the government has announced a aspire of two billion of $ of the Prestation national for children , the details before be releases certified .
the Leader of the government can - he we say if the government has the intention of to seriously how totalisent the different taxes and the are incorporated before of propose his past changes to the Prestation national for children ?
the government can - he give to the Senate the insurance that he denying this inequity particularly serious for the people of the Nova - Nova ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I thank the Senator Oliver of me have has a copy of these calculus a little before my arrived to the Senate .
I know that the Senator has to heart the example that he has of .
I am happy that the Senator has mentioned the increase Annual of two billion of $ of the Prestation tax national for children who has was scheduled in the the Budgets , and that the assistance Annual of close of 7 billion of $ which the families benefit through to this Benefit , to be of July 2000 .
the hon. Senator has recognized that , and we we go all two for say that he the is that of a legislation government very important .
I like also add that , for a family who that two children , the Benefit maximale is of 3 750 $ , this who represents a increase of 1,200 per by report to the Benefit maximale of 1996 .
I know that the hon. Senator the pleased of the progress that we have made .
honourable senators , he me intéressera certainly of speak of the example precise .
I am course that the government will that of all the factors that the Senator has mentioned .
for this who with this example particular , I will me enquérir with of the various parties and I then ensure to the Senator that his concern will passed to the authorities appropriate .
the Senator Oliver :
the Minister agree certainly with I that , when a mother of four children who trying of gain per $ of more the ' with only 16,84 $ , the government must to someone something for try of are of the provisions of clawback .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I am of agreed with the Senator .
we not want certainly not accepting a mother only of four children in this situation of try of gain per $ of more .
in all the any who have was pointed , I me ask if the premium to the Plan of Pension of the Canada , by example , the applies to all the levels of income or the he there has a level of income accomplishing over - beyond which it not the applies not .
as I not pretend not be a an in the s , I like power in discuss with of the people averties .
I does certainly the spirit of the observation that its the Senator .
the Nations Nations
the disarmament nuclear - Position policy of the government opposite to the resolution of the New Agenda Coalition
the hon. Douglas Roche :
honourable senators , my question the is to the Leader of the government to the Senate , that I for for his appointment and to who I wish all the success possible .
the 19 April last , in his response to the report of the Committee Standing of the Affairs foreign and of the trade international , the government of the Canada the pursuit to work with the New Agenda Coalition for to some objectives in s of disarmament nuclear .
the 26 October last , the New Agenda Coalition has presented a resolution to the first commission of the Assembly general of the Nations Nations .
... to the States will of weapons nuclear of the Services without was to proceed rapid and in all to the Elimination of their arsenaux nuclear and of about without delay of the negotiations and of the make to well quickly , parvenant and to the disarmament nuclear which they are held pursuant to the section VI of the Treaty on the not - proliferation of the weapons nuclear .
before that the Minister not will , honourable senators , I like , if you me the let , table in the two languages official the resolution that the New Agenda Coalition has introduced to the first commission of the Assembly general of the Nations Nations the 22 October 99 .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the leave is - it granted for table the statement ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I thank the hon. Senator Roche of his question .
I the thank also for this that he has said before on the role of the Canada in the efforts of - of the peace in the world .
these comments crumpled particularly to point .
in this who has with to the question specific that the hon. Senator has raised , I am course that the Minister of the Affairs foreign and of the Trade international will carefully , in time and place , the Position of the government and that he the make public in time wanted .
I be happy of the to know then to the hon. Senator .
the Senator Roche :
in analysant the text of the resolution , I not is nothing who be entities with the policy of the government Canadian .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I me will a happy of take knowledge of the come that has tabled the hon. Senator and of to on of his comments to the ministers competent .
the Defence national
the Alternative of the helicopters Sea King
the hon. J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , I have several questions to for to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
the Senator Graham me will , but I you wish the welcome , Mr. , and you wish good opportunity .
is specifically 1 196 days that the Senator Graham me has promised that " very , very soon " , " long " , " in the few days to come " , be annoncerait the Alternative of the helicopters preclude .
yesterday , the Minister of the Affairs foreign has qualified the Estimates paramount in s of Defence of " ennuyeuses " .
honourable senators , a submarine very patient not could not be urgent of the ship to the broad of the Coast is of the Nova - Nova because the Sea King of the HMCS Fredericton not is not Operational , all as the Sea King to on of the HMCS Ville of Quebec , and that he not there has not of Sea King to Shearwater .
the Minister is - he of agreed with the Minister of the Affairs foreign when , - this as the Estimates of Defence of ennuyeuses ?
the concern he of the well - be of our military , who upon of a equipment course and reliable ?
in fact , he is almost immoral of let these had steal .
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
the Senator Forrestall raises the question of a submarine who the is found in a situation difficult .
that my sources , this submarine is in are of the restore soon to the Hospital .
however , that not does not to the question raised by the hon. Senator .
I have had of the discussions with the Minister of the Defence national , who me has indicated that the Alternative of the helicopters is a absolutely priority .
I sharing certainly this point of view with the Minister of the Defence national and I not ménagerai not my efforts for me ensure that the mechanisms voulus be in place to of replace these helicopters .
the Senator Forrestall :
honourable senators , I believe understand that the Leader of the government to the Senate the is now committed to spend as of time to the preoccupied of the problems are the Shipping in particular must to opposite that to try of redorer the blason Liberal in our wonderful province .
the West Scotia Scotia Regiment - Position appointment of a Colonel Honorary
the hon. J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , I like for a question on a about who back to almost three years .
the West Scotia Scotia Regiment is since well more of two years the appointment of a new Colonel Honorary .
that fact long that this regiment very coloré not has not of Colonel Honorary .
if the Minister not has not of information today today , and this could well be the case , his officials and him - even could - they whether if this appointment can be made the more quickly possible ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I rise to the seriously the remontrances of the hon. Senator who to that we améliorions the situation of the Shipping on the Coast Atlantic .
for this who is of redorer the blason of the Party Liberal , however , I wish to him say that the two things not are not necessarily conflicting .
in this who has with to the regiment which about the Senator , I not cannot answer of way specific .
I will therefore take his question in note and I him fournirai of the information to this about more later .
between - time , if the Senator has of the suggestions to the about of a Colonel Honorary , I be happy of in to on to the authorities can .
the agriculture and the agroalimentaire
the crisis agricultural to the Manitoba and in Saskatchewan - Position visit of the delegation to Ottawa - - anomalies in the statistics
the hon. Mira Spivak :
honourable senators , the first ministers of the Manitoba and of the Saskatchewan are came here to Ottawa for ask to the government of come in assistance to the farmers .
our Prime Minister and the government have fact know that that the statistics the situation not would not if bad and that he not is therefore not necessary that the government would a assistance Supplementary to the farmers .
however , these statistics not have not was communiquées to those who are came ask of the assistance .
the Leader of the government to the Senate could - he user of his good boards for the ensure that the Minister of the Agriculture make public the statistics in because for that we can the to ?
when I have examined the statistics to on the Saskatchewan , they me have seemed very clear and I am sure that of other will of agreed with I to this about .
as all the know well , the costs of production are two time more high that the price of sales .
the Minister can - he we say if we able a day see these data shadows on which the Prime Minister the support ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Agriculture have met the first ministers of the Saskatchewan and of the Manitoba and that the delegations who the accompagnaient .
he seemed there have a some confusion as to the figures on which the two parties the appuyaient .
we me of rationaliser these data and I not can that assume that the data rationalisées will complete public soon .
however , I not like not let believe that , because that he there had difference of opinions relatively to some figures in because , the government not instead not of other measures .
this would that a conclusion many too hâtive .
the Senator Spivak :
honourable senators , the Prime Minister of my province is River amèrement disappointed .
I know that a Committee the before on the figures .
however , the assistance demandée by the Manitoba and the Saskatchewan was , as the Minister the knows that , of 1.3 billion of $ .
I have déduit of the about that I have liberty with the people who are attack see the Prime Minister , and that of the or published in the press and of the documents published to the on of a identifies in the National Financial , which we know that he not the wrong never , that the government not wisely not of to a assistance of this importance , that to the notice , it not was not necessary for with the crisis .
in fact , the response is a not without was .
the Minister has he someone something to we say today today who indiquerait that this not is not that the attitude of the government ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , the government has an someone 900 million of $ to the program ACRA .
the provinces have fact a contribution of higher million of $ .
in more of this amount , the delegation has asked a assistance Supplementary of 1.3 billion of $ .
I think that all the world is of agreed that - with .
the response of the government has was that he not agreed not that the be could consider a assistance of 1.3 billion of $ .
I not think not that he has changed of notice .
however , he would compassionate of conclude that no assistance not is available .
the crisis agricultural to the Manitoba and in Saskatchewan - - very made to the Prime Minister
the hon. Mira Spivak :
honourable senators , I know that of what about the Minister .
I you greetings their point of view .
, the like of other senators , I me am personally entretenue with several delegations .
they the have know .
however , until to this , nothing not we allows of believe that this will fact .
the Minister signalera he to the Prime Minister and to the s that the moral is to the more there , to the Manitoba ?
the people of the province the believe marginaux and little stick of the attention granted to all the other regions of the country .
I not am not of their notice .
the Minister will he also on of the sense who starts to poindre to the Manitoba ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I guaranteed personally to the hon. Senator that his remarks will ensued to the Prime Minister to the first opportunity .
well that be has would to the ACRA a amount of money important , be someone 1.5 billion of $ , and well that 36 . requests have was showed in the framework of this program , he there has had of the complaints as to the fact that this money not has not was débloqué as he the would should for answer effectively to the needs .
of the concerns have also was expressed as to the fact that the amount would to this program could not not be sufficient .
all these remarks are taken to the seriously .
the government the examine with attention .
the crisis agricultural to the Manitoba and in Saskatchewan - - effectiveness of the program of assistance in case of disaster linked to the income agricultural
the hon. A . Raynell Andreychuk :
honourable senators , the Leader of the government to the Senate has indicated that the ACRA works well .
the message that we envoient the farmers of the Western Canadian is that he the can that he works well , , but that he not is not for with the problems that are the Saskatchewan and the Manitoba .
this message has was sent to the Prime Minister federal by the a of the two first ministers provincial to the least .
why the ask of remanier the ACRA introduced by the Manitoba and the Saskatchewan not has it not was received Right ?
why has be fact hope to the first ministers of these provinces that he there would of the new ?
why have - they was attirés to Ottawa for the to say a time of more that the government would study the case ?
after of the months of tergiversations , is - this that a way of to traîner the things for that he not rest more a only family of farmers ?
is - this that the plan secret of the government ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , for the radical of the hon. Senator , I not have not said that the ACRA operated Allison well and not had not need of improvements .
this that I have said , this is that this was a program important this billion of $ .
someone 36 . farmers there have idea in soumettant a ask .
, the least , they there have believed to a time of .
I think that all the world recognizes that the money dispensé by the through of this program not has not was circulated also effectively that he would could the be .
the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Agriculture taking the question to the seriously .
the talks that they have Government with the first ministers provincial have confirmed this that they knew already .
I hope that of the improvements will be made to the programs existing and that be can find of other forms of assistance .
the Senator Andreychuk :
honourable senators , I have received of the calls of farmers who have fact a ask in the framework of ACRA .
they me have said that that could take until to six months for have a response .
how the government can - he know if the program works well if the response that the farmers expect desperately so six months in behind ?
some of those who have fact a ask in April or in May not receive that today today notification that they not are not eligible .
of where just the confidence that the government has in the ACRA ?
after consultation , the first ministers of the Saskatchewan and of the Manitoba are came to Ottawa convinced that their problem would took to the seriously , to the place of to the subject of studies additional .
they the formerly to this that the hailed who are to the on of the bankrupt be sauvées .
a time that the farmers will parties , they not reviendront not .
this not is not a resources registration .
when they they the firm é , they they the Saskatchewan . It destroyed the basic .
we not dishonour not of the even diversity that some other provinces , there including the of the Leader of the government .
we dépendons of the agriculture , of the least for the time .
when will be the program ACRA of the point of view of the Saskatchewan and of the Manitoba , rather that of a point of view world ?
he not there has more of time to losing .
of other studies not are more necessary .
be can certainly establish here a step with the fishing , this that the Minister should understand .
be not can more expect .
the problem is criticism .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , her the Senator will pleased if I then the ensure that a such review has place in this time .
the Senator Andreychuk :
we not have not need of review .
the Senator Boudreau :
that her the Senator , and it not is probably not the only to have this opinion , the program not has not fonctionné also well that he the could .
the Senator has spoke of delay in the treatment of the requests .
the government has took this question to the seriously .
hope that the results of this seriously review will people public very soon .
the crisis agricultural to the Manitoba and in Saskatchewan - Position visit of a delegation to Ottawa - - anomalies in the statistics
the hon. David Tkachuk :
honourable senators , my question the is to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
we about of well of the things which we not are not many to the aware .
however , a something that we know , this is that the farmers of the west of the Canada rely among the farmers the more productive , the more effective and the more commensurate to the world .
they grow of the products of the more high quality .
yet , without that they there be for someone something , they are bankrupt .
that , we the know .
they are acculés to the bankrupt and some the suicident .
the senators Sparrow , Gustafson , Spivak and Andreychuk speak of this problem since the fall 1998 . We in have spoke also in February , all as we the have fact in March , in April and in June .
the first ministers of these two provinces are then came to visit to the government .
what months are - we ?
they have received of the figures of the Prime Minister and of the Minister of the Agriculture .
when they have asked of where were these figures , be their has said that they not could not the say .
I am a corner simple of the Prairies .
, my notice , the Minister must we say when these figures will people public and how this situation has could the produce .
of where were these figures ?
of the apologize should be made to the two first ministers who have was treaties of the so .
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , he there has clearly a difference of views in this who with the figures are the are fiés the two first ministers provincial and the Prime Minister .
I not believe not that this problem has was resolved until to now .
all the efforts voulus will provided in view of help these figures and of to public the way that a agreed has was an .
this is a very broader problem , as the knows the hon. Senator .
the Senator Tkachuk :
honourable senators , the first ministers have said that all their figures performance to the data of Statistics Canada and of the Department federal of the Agriculture and that to the data that the government federal has communiquées to the great public .
when the be has asked to the government federal of explain the figures to the first ministers , they not have not was in legislation of the to .
he not enough not of say that he there has had a difference of views .
goes not has not was the case .
the first ministers provincial have statement a problem .
they have used the statistics and the figures that their has provided the government of the Canada .
the government of the Canada has then said : " We have of other figures , but we not you examine not of where they come . "
this was a great not for him .
I think that the government of the Canada should to of the apologize to the two first ministers and the dépêcher of we say when he soon these figures and their source to the House of the Commons and to the Senate .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I bring the point of view of the Senator to the Minister of the Agriculture and to the Prime Minister .
more specifically , I believe that the Minister of the Agriculture provide a explanation .
of after the discussions that I have liberty with him , I me am to this that he the it directly .
the crisis agricultural to the Manitoba and in Saskatchewan - - impact economic of the further of the income agricultural
the hon. Leonard J . Gustafson :
honourable senators , my question the is to the Leader of the government to the House .
the forecasts of the Department of the Agriculture and of the Agroalimentaire for 99 chiffraient the income agricultural net in Saskatchewan to least 48 million of $ , be the level the more low that he has reached since corner , and that includes the Payments from of the insurance - crop , of the Given of stabilization of the income net and of the Program of assistance in case of disaster linked to the income agricultural .
the forecasts for the Manitoba the chiffraient to least per million of $ , the level the more low never reached to the over of the century , still more low that in the years 30 .
the frustration of the farmers and of the two first ministers provincial is enormous .
I am a farmer and I opposite among them .
we not can not we in out .
he must to someone something .
the situation will of serious impact national for the together of the Canada .
we are a industry very culmination .
he not there has not of producers more effective to the world that the producers of grain of the west of the Canada .
the Leader of the government to the Senate , the members of the cabinet and the Prime Minister not the will - they not that that that will of serious impact national , not only in words of tentations of separation or of union to the States - United , but in words economic for the Canada ?
the substantially agricultural through by our farmers help for a good on to our gained commercial .
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I then ensure the hon. Senator that the Prime Minister includes the importance of the sector agricultural for the together of the economy Canadian .
, only two weeks before my into in service in this chamber respected , I have had the opportunity of go with the Bank of the Canada in Saskatchewan for there meet of the farmers and hear their very .
I there have also fact a visit in a and agricultural and I admire do the activities , the effectiveness and the productivity of the farmers of the Prairies .
, the over of this visit , I me am record that however of the magnitude of the problem .
this problem does more that a assistance government to short term .
he must that the farmers be on a at of equality with their competitors across in the world and we must we strive for that they have of the opportunity playing .
they have poses in the past , and they the will in the future , that the they have of the opportunity playing , they can very well succeed .
I attention very clear to the hon. Senator that the Prime Minister , the Minister of the Agriculture and I - even are aware of the importance of the sector agricultural of the Western for the country all around .
the crisis agricultural to the Manitoba and in Saskatchewan - Position possible of a program of credit agricultural
the hon. Leonard J . Gustafson :
honourable senators , the Leader of the government to the Senate reopened - he the Presented to the cabinet of a clause to to such the debt to the Corporation of the credit agricultural ?
the government could the to , since the farmers jobs their bills the they have the money .
as be the knows , be urge the farmers to not not a their taxes .
nine municipalities have decided to the way of a vote of not not pay their taxes .
I have spoke to the préfet of the pay of Wellington .
that him , this not is not that the farmers say of a their taxes , but well that they are unable of the to .
they not can would of the money that they not have not .
the Leader of the government to the Senate would - he of would to the cabinet and to the Prime Minister the suggestion that they have taken to the seriously for with of a way or of a other the problem of the debt to the Corporation of credit agricultural ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , without violation the confidentiality of the cabinet , I can say that this question is now to the program of the cabinet .
that not surprend hardly the hon. Senator , who is of , very respected including to the within of the community agricultural .
I not will no difficulty to would his very to my colleagues to the within of the cabinet .
Library of the Parliament Langues official due of the regulatory
the committees abiding Standing - Message of the Commons
the Hon. the Speaker announcement that he has received of the Commons the message following :
he is ordered - That the committees abiding Standing of the House be snitch of the members which the names listed this - after :
Library of the Parliament
members :
Assad , celebrating , Catterall , Cloutier , Finlay , Grey ( Edmonton - North ) , Harb , Karygiannis , Lavigne , Lill , Limoges , Mayfield , MLA , é , Price , Redman - ( 16 )
members associated :
Davies , Dumas , Robbie ( Rimouski - Mitis )
languages official
members :
Bélanger , Bellemare , Chamberlain , of Savoye , Folco , Godin ( Acadie - Bathurst ) , Hill ( Macleod ) , Kilger , Lavigne , Mark , McTeague , McWhinney , Meredith , Muise , é , Serré - ( 16 )
members associated :
Dumas , MLA , Nystrom , Robbie ( Rimouski - Mitis ) , Turp
review of the regulatory
members :
Assad , Bonwick , Bryden , Casey , Comuzzi , DeVillers , Epp , Grewal , Lebel , Murray , Nystrom , Pankiw , Pillitteri , Saada , Venne , Wappel , White ( North Vancouver ) - ( 17 )
members associated :
Bellehumeur , Dockrill , Guimond , Robbie ( Rimouski - Mitis )
that a message be sent to the Senate to of inform the honourable senators of the names of the members who will the House to the committees abiding Standing .
ATTESTÉ :
the business of the Senate
the statement of the Speaker on the granting of a leave to the over of the Affairs offered and on the event of the 14 October 99
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , are - you of agreed for that I it now the statement that the Senator Lynch - Lynch me has asked of to to the about of the Affairs offered during of the last Senate ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the 14 October , for the Affairs offered , the Senator Hays has asked the leave of to , to the step of the notice of motions of the government , a motion in view of extend the adjournment of the Senate .
the leave him has was granted , but as that the question has was implementation in discussion , he there has had a some confusion as to the procedure to follow .
, the end , the motion increasing the adjournment of two weeks has was agreed and the Senate is past to other something .
however , when the order of the day has was called , the Senator Lynch - Lynch has asked to the Speaker of clarify the question to of avoid any confusion to the future .
I thank many the Senator Lynch - Lynch of have raised the question , I believe that this is important .
on to this ask , I have well thought to the question and I am now prepared to me deal on my interpretation of the application of the rules and impressive of the Senate .
in my statement , I me am tried of to the more of case possible , but I not am not course of have covered all the from .
in addition , this review will for of met some are and incohérences in the Rules , on which the Committee Standing of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure should the with .
the formula current of the Affairs offered fact part of the procedure of the Senate since 1991 .
this year - that , the Rules of the Senate has was amended for where the order in which the questions of the Affairs offered would appelées to the on of the statements of senators .
this order is established to the paragraph 23 ( 6 ) .
the section has by , that the questions of privilege and the points to the Rules are await to the step of the Affairs offered and that all vote by call recorded asked is order to 17 p.m. 30 , except in case of motion without debate made without notice .
of other provisions of the section not the hour to which the will the period of the questions and the hour to which the order of the day will called if the time provided for the Affairs offered is extensions .
the period of the Affairs offered includes the Presented of reports of committees Standing or special , the notice of motions of the government , and that the notice of motions made by of other senators .
usually , the chairmen are simply to their report and the senators are notice of the motion .
but to the opportunity , the leave is demandée of proceed on - the - report , or more later to the over of the day , to the discussion of the report of a Committee .
of even , to the step of the notice of motions , the chairman of a Committee will the leave of to a motion for to to the Committee of the meet to a time where the Senate could be in Senate .
these past years , all the duration where the Senate seat , the Leader Deputy of the government ask almost course the leave of to a motion for that the Senate the while to 13 p.m. 30 the Wednesday rather that to 14 p.m. .
each time that he is asked of déroger to the procedure of the Affairs offered , he the is of a notice in application of the sections 57 or 58 .
the leave is granted if no Senator this in the Room not the there against .
if a only the there against , the question not can be most before the end of the deadline being .
in addition , if the leave is granted , the Adopted of the report or of the motion is proposed on - the - report , except if the ask move of in until the review to more later to the over of the day .
when the question Current to the report or to the motion is implementation to the Senators , it is sujette to debate .
the fact that these questions or a notice as clear that they are subject to debate .
no report of Committee or motion of further who is ' to the Senators not is soustrait to the possible of a debate .
the fact that the motions made with the leave of the Senate to the step of the Affairs offered not are rarely or never debatable not means not that they not can not the be .
only the motions made without notice not can be debatable .
a time the debate in over , all the rules for the debates are applicable , there including the possible of a point to the Rules .
that with to the fact that in whether that the question be implementation to the Senators , the Séant the is of this fact ruled of the Affairs offered for the office of the debate , until to this that he be tranché or adjourned .
, my sense , the restriction of the paragraph 23 ( 1 ) , would the points to the Rules or the questions of privilege to the step of the Affairs offered , not the applies not to the debate , the of that the Senate not is s more to the step of the Affairs offered .
if , by , , a ask of vote by call recorded is made to the end of the debate , the paragraph 23 ( 3 ) has that he will order to 17 p.m. 30 this day - that , except , well heard , if the leave is granted of the to to a other time .
a other clause of the section 23 the applies even if a debate is in over .
the paragraph 23 ( 7 ) for that to the more later 30 minutes after the call of the Prime point of the Affairs offered , the Senate must from to the period of the questions .
he is therefore possible that the review of the Affairs offered or a debate in over on a point of the Affairs offered be interrompu by the period of the questions .
of fact , this is this who the is product the 6 May 1993 when the debate in third Reading of the bill of bill C - 114 , amend the Act election of the Canada , has was asked immediately after the Presented of the report on the bill of bill , without amendment , by the Committee of the Affairs legal and Constitutional .
, this opportunity , the bill of bill had understand the step of the third Reading before the end of the deadline of 30 minutes for the Affairs offered before the period of the questions .
the Senate is then past to the review of the order of the day without to to the Affairs offered .
is therefore in large this who can the from when the Senate accept of welcome a motion to the step of the Affairs offered .
I hope that these Particulars you will of better understand this aspect of our procedures .
this who the is past the Thursday 14 October last , when the Senator Hays has asked the leave of to a motion to to extend the adjournment of the Senate , was therefore consistent to our rules and impressive .
order DAY THE
the speech of the Throne
motion of Adopted of the Adresse in response - Continued of the debate
the order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Jeffrey , seconded by the hon. Senator Furey , Honourable to the Adopted of a Adresse to His Excellency the Gouverneure general in response to the speech that her has by during of the openness of the second session of the 30 - sixth Parliament .
( 1 day of the resuming of the debate )
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , before all things , I wish today today to thank my predecessor , friend and party of the Nova - Nova , the Senator Graham , of the excellent leadership that he has assured to the Senate to the over of the two past years .
of the Senators :
hear !
the Senator Boudreau :
I him am grateful of the assistance and of the support generous that he me has accorded these past weeks , since my appointment , for which I have had enormous of things to learn .
I hear exorbitant without vergogne of the assistance that he has if generously proposed of continue to me give .
honourable senators , I before also the opportunity of thank the Senator Carstairs of the excellent work that it has accomplished for these two years to the as of Leader Deputy .
of the Senators :
hear !
the Senator Boudreau :
I hope also benefit of his extensive knowledge and of his rich experience , to the time where we begin a new session of the Parliament .
the Senator Hays has was well Summer in me saying that he would very difficult of satisfy to the standards exigeantes cut by the Senator Carstairs .
all two , we will widely call to his bobbing in the days to come .
I wish to congratulate the senators Jeffrey and Furey of the excellent speech that they have given for propose and support the Adresse in response to the speech of the Throne .
I me in like of not not add my congratulations to the many other that has showed our new Gouverneure general .
his appointment proves that the dream Canadian not is not only a dream ; he the is realized .
be can the rise until to the more senior positions to the country and help of way very meaningful to our vision collective of the Canada .
what is this vision ?
the Prime Minister the has which and in his response to the speech of the Throne :
this is a Canada where each child is assured of a good departure in the life , where the young have the possible of the épanouir and of throughout their potential in the field of their choice , where the citizens have access to the knowledge and to the skills which they have need for excel .
this is a Canada where the citizens , what that be their income , receive of the care of health of quality , where the families live in security in a community widest , where we work of our with of other country to promote the peace , the diversity cultural and the supplemented of the new economy mondialisée ...
this is a Canada who is a Leader and a model which the world around can the sustains .
the voracious will can - be that this are that of talk words and they the interrogeront can - be on their means real .
fortunately , these words have a very important means .
the government proving this vision through to the strategy who is stated in the speech of the Throne and to the words of which he the commitment to work in cooperation with the provinces and the territories for to to the point the Program national of action for the children .
he proving this vision in by a plan of action national in s of skills and of learning for the 21 century .
he the proving by the through of initiatives to to increase the access of the businesses Canadian to the markets world .
he the proving through to of the programs who is to improve the infrastructure of the know of the Canada , including by the creation of the instituts Canadian of research in health , and in benefiting more the research of forefront .
he the proving in be of the measures who features our infrastructure of the information him .
he proving this vision in conclusion of the initiatives for improve our environment .
honourable senators , this vision of the Canada is enthousiasmante and it can become reality .
our country has understand a turning .
we have ' of the order in our Finance , our budget is balanced and he the will .
as the Gouverneure general we the has said in the speech of the Throne :
the government is resolved to continue a policy of management financial prudent .
more never he not will that the be perde the control of the Finance of the state .
he will in so that the debt falling constantly by report to the product within gross .
he keeping the commitment took to the beginning of this Parliament of spend the half of the surplus budget to the would of the debt and to the relief of the taxes , and the other half to the investment for to answer to the needs social and economic of the Canadians .
honourable senators , he there has however of other realities in our country who require our attention .
I just of a region who , for of many years , has suffered of the éloignement of the seat of the power economic and policy of the country .
the Cape - Cape , to as of example , must into completely the economy .
that given of this that recelait the under - soil , the Cape - Cape has seen the economy and for of the generations on the mining of minerais who not are more exploitables of way effective to great has , of the least not as they the have was in the past , and on the industry of the steel who seems now have lost his reason of be economic .
in reason of this accident geographical , the Cape - Cape not the is never with of a so criticism of industries of manufacturing or of industries of services parallels for 8.4 to the addiction of these industries traditional based on the resources minérales .
the most of the regions have had several decades for the adapt to the new realities economic , but the time is a luxury that not has not the Cape - Cape .
he must the into election .
he must to a great show in before in the development economic .
he must the propulser , almost of the day to the next , in the new age post - industrial .
I believe that the speech of the Throne contains a message of hope for the Cape - Cape and for the other regions similar of our great country .
in the speech , the Senator Furey has spoke of the identify who are in are of the having in his province , Newfoundland - Newfoundland and the Labrador .
he has said :
today today , Newfoundland - Newfoundland and the Labrador the for in the tourmente of the great changes technological and economic who balayent the world .
the people of this region not the are however not just ; they are call to their skills and to their learning of long date for to opposite to the realities of the change quick .
through to their creativity , their resort , their solidarity , their determination and their fiercely to the work , they will their dreams and choose to the before their province and their country .
the computers and the Internet can main the opportunity between the city and the campaign , between the centre of the Canada and the provinces are , between the rich and the poor .
recently , I have heard speak of a human who in to Mount Pearl , to Newfoundland - Newfoundland , and who télétravaille for a business of launching of Los Angeles .
the place where in this worker any little for the employer .
all this who that , this is the ability and the branchement Internet .
the public of my province , the Nova - Nova , the knows that well .
in all the across of the province , he there has of the dozens of businesses in Technology of the information who are ready to the start on the Highway of the information .
the Nova - Nova are already on this Highway and some foncent to any memories to the success .
the Prime Minister of the Canada has set the objective : to of the Canada a Leader world in the use inventive of the Electronic for to of the Affairs and encourage the expansion quick of the trade Electronic to the Canada .
honourable senators , the people of the Nova - Nova are the first to the Canada for this who is of the Purchase and of the sales of products by Internet .
we have quickly including the opportunities of the Internet and we in impact .
I will you give a example .
in 1995 , when the market real fighting of the wing , the leadership of two tours to offices jumelles in the centre - city of Halifax has known of seriously problems .
these buildings , who constituency the sixth of the local to offices of the centre - city of Halifax , were seriously under - used .
the leadership has then decided of take of great risks .
it has place the cable necessary to a access quick and of forefront to Internet .
and , in November 1998 , the buildings of Purdy' s Wharf have dismantling the history in lone the Prime complex to the Canada provider of services Internet .
this is a vision , a initiative and a Investment who have reported .
in effect , Purdy' s Wharf who continued eight businesses of Technology of the information occupying 35 . feet square in 1995 her now 40 businesses similar , who roles a neatly of 120 . feet square .
among his locataires , be is T & T Canada , Clear Picture Corporation , Fonorola , Fundy Communications , IBM Canada , iStar Internet , Knowledge Navigators International , Scotia Knowledge , ACC Canada and Xerox Canada , for not in appoint that few - each .
" by a system of optic optic , a powerful stretch of data is ' to the clause of all the locataires , their ensuring 24 p.m. by day a access to Internet to little près100 time more quick that the modems by .
be has also place the intranet for to the réseautage between the locataires .
other said , the as has into a market real moribond in opportunity of Affairs , opportunity who has created a centre of Technology to the heart of the city of Halifax .
the initiatives of this such , as public that private , are of good results .
, Halifax , the rate of unemployment for the months of September was of 6,2p. per , be the rate the more there since the Second War World .
this rate is the even that , of Toronto and he is on to the average national of honoraria per for September .
honourable senators , we have the ability necessary , and the government the reducing of to in so that all the Canadians , little any where they live to the country , nor of the tools which they have need for throughout their potential .
the Prime Minister has was very clear in the speech in response to the speech of the Throne when he has said :
plug the Canadians - between them , with the schools and the library , with the culture , with the Administration public , with the trade and with the world - is the a of the major means of hisser the Canada to the range of great economy World and of continue to in to a country to the opportunities without limits .
we must for to become the country the more branché to the world .
still a time , the government has set of the aims very with for to this objective :
and for the help to cutting the use of the new technologies of the information , we recruterons until to 10 . young Canadians who beat of the training to the citizens of all the unwelcome .
honourable senators , the skills and the training are essential if the be to power benefit of these new opportunities .
the government has announced that he Brunswickers of the partnerships with the other governments , the agencies public and private and that with the Canadians and the may , to of establish a plan of action national in s of skills and of learning for the 21 century .
let - I of you quote a other which of the speech of the Throne :
our economy to basic of know represents more that of the companies of high Technology .
this is a economy who includes already of the grappes of development technologique in of small communities across to the Canada .
in reality , this is a economy to the within of which the Technology can all to a more great stability economic in the regions primarily rural in which the industries of and of the resources cycles - agriculture , fisheries , Forestry , mines and tourism - are the major sources of only .
the government favorisera the development and the Adopted of new technologies in all the sectors .
back - in to my own province .
how the Nova - Nova in contained it ?
I you say of new that it in tirera of the benefits very with , honourable senators .
the sector of the energy is very bode for the Canada Atlantic .
I have personally very good hope that he will to the region of new sectors specified of research and of development to who , to their turn , could the publicize by of the opportunities and of the applications fascinantes to the outside of the Canada Atlantic .
the new Centre of excellence in s of development and of education in the sector of the canada , established to the College university of the Cape - Cape , could serve of springboard to these activities of research and of development .
I have recently had the opportunity of announce the institution of the Institute of the canada of the Canada Atlantic to the University Dalhousie to Halifax .
these institutions working already together and concoctent indeed of the alliances with of great institutions of the industry of the canada , in the world .
of our days , the hailed agricultural mechanization often to of the plants complex caractérisées by a growth manipulée and of the potato not saisonnières to great has .
the industries traditional of and of the resources , as those of the Forestry and of the mines , about the influence of the research in biotechnologie .
he and fréquent of be sitting behind a office can of having the rivage in the coincidental of Lunenburg , then of cliquer on the bouton of a cat and of exchange of the information and of the ideas with of the people which of the other side of the planet .
honourable senators , he not enough not of to to our young to the serve of a computer or to programmer a logiciel .
we must open their be and their spirit to the potential of the world who we surrounding .
the government recognizes this fact .
in the speech of the Throne , the government announcement that he will to the young Canadians of use their energy and their talents addition - sea in participant to of the programs international of Pages and in by the country in seaway of development to the plug on Internet .
these experiences can be of a great value , as the training concrete and direct that they may ; the knowledge learning in of other country and with of other Peoples ; the taken of conscience that the world is great but that the distance not must not we prevent of work together .
this are that of the lessons important who features our young , the leaders of tomorrow , Regional to to as our communities and our country in the 21 century .
this are that of the initiatives who can help as the small communities that the great centres urban .
I have many confidence in the Canadians , and they have of more in more confidence in them - same .
that they live to the community of our great centre urbain or in a small village isolated of the Atlantic or still in full forest of the British - British , the message of the speech of the Throne is that the distance not has never was also little important in our history .
the government will in so that the Canadians , where that they live , have access to the tools which they have need for succeed in this new age post - industrial .
that will he easy ?
this not is never easy .
build this country not has , certainly , not was easy .
our from have based this country in despite of a climate very rigorous , of the extensive disappear to although , and of deep differences linguistic , cultural and religious .
what were the opportunity of success ?
they not acceptaient not of be vaincus by these difficulties .
we must to these pioneers who have imaginé this country and the have realized of to a dream for the century who just .
the new pioneers are well portants and live in the region of the Atlantic or across , to the Canada .
these new pioneers , who make the dream of the 21 century , not tolerate not the prophètes of malheurs .
honourable senators , our Gouverneure general has by a speech inspired to this House when it has tenure his new service .
it has said this :
we not must not we see as a people who airport to the trends , but as a people who the challenges .
we not must not we see as a people who airport , but as a people who is .
the government has said the intention of see this country proud and prosperous driver the world in the next millennium and over - beyond .
we should all be privileged of be in legislation , in as that parliamentarians , of to in so that that the proving .
of the Senators :
hear !
the hon. John Lynch - Lynch ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I wish to congratulate the Gouverneure general recently appointed and to him wish all the success wanted in his new duties of representative of the Leader of the state Canadian .
Ms Clarkson raced to the a of our former colleagues who has made a an personal to a for ingrate and often little appréciée to his fair value .
PuissentM. Roméo LeBlanc and his gracieuse wife , Diana , largest a long retirement pleased on the settle of the Hormuz of Northumberland .
the policy can be also Dolly that grisante , and not only after of the election .
the reports between the different for , often dénaturés by the ambitions personal , we it often rudement to the it .
the success of a party policy , and recognize of the Leader , what that be the déconvenues or the problems personal , is inexorably linked of the loyalty of the supporters .
honourable senators , these comments me come to the spirit to the on of the withdrawal sudden of the Senator Graham of his duties of Leader of the government to the Senate .
for the mandate , the commitment of the Senator to the regard of our institution and of the Nova - Nova not has never fact is each time that he the is acted for him of defend the objectives of the government and of the party .
his qualities of man of honour and of principles not have never as was with to the it that the months last , and his conduct copy since in or a new time the evidence .
that he me be for of borrowing the s of Edmund Burke for express my reaction to the limogeage if than of the Senator Graham .
the magnanimité in policy is often the unique seaway of the wisdom and the processes of a party policy is served by the spirit petty .
this said , to the behalf of the members of our caucus and of I - even , I wish good opportunity to the Senator Boudreau to the as of Leader of the government .
however , the admission that he is here primarily for redorer the blason of the party in Nova - Nova , this that he has fact of way extraordinary in the speech that he has by he there has few fairest , is troublante because it raises of the questions on the a in this House not elected in pending a for public élective .
the Senator Boudreau has said without ambages that he had the intention of be candidate to the House of the Commons to the next election .
this is to my notice as if a player of the League national of hockey reappoint uphill the to refer in a ligue mineure .
I hope that the Senator Boudreau apprendra soon to appreciate the importance and the accomplishments of the Senate and that he the make that that this is in this House that the bills of bill are the better studied , where the spirit of party not is never too by and where the supporters of the government , the ministers and the senators of second plan are all treaties as of the individuals and not as of the automates , and that they the an in make , free of the on cut to our colleagues in the other place .
the senators Jeffrey and Furey , who have proposed and seconded the motion Current to the Adresse in response to the speech of the Throne , the are acquittés with great distinction and eloquence of their role .
he not will however not be in their about other something that a include as to the speech who has so pesé to His Excellency and who did a much striking with , that it has by after the assermentation .
the Senator Jeffrey in has fact little of case , not him focused that few Love paragraphs , and we has of a indication of the commitment deep to the country and the government , this that has fact also the Senator Furey .
in fact , they not had not the choice before a speech which be him as and who is immediately became a not - event .
this who would should be a vision for the century to come the is into in a litanie of by .
the sense of anticipation was on the Awaiting his of proposals concrete for solve the serious problems that we are now .
however , to the great surprise of all , the speech of the Throne has past under silence the agriculture of the Western , who facing the worse crisis since the years 30 , the fisheries , who are in reselling to of serious difficulties , the Immigration illégale , who trahit the failles of the legislation Canadian , the difficulties of the companies air that , even today today , the government rather that someone something called the " forces of the market " rule , and the reduction of the taxes who , if be déchiffre the few words who there are spent , will should fair before the next election .
the poverty and the fate of the without - from not have hardly was mentioned .
however , he there has two issues who have was broader in the speech of the Throne and which I like speak .
the Prime with the statement that which the government not will more never that the be perde the control of the Finance of the state .
he is rassurant of see that those - that even who were that to the time and who have deliberately left the Finance of the nation go to the with have last by understand , even if it not has not was easy .
I think in particular to the Prime Minister who , in as that chairman of the Council of the Board and Minister of the Finance in the years 70 , has many contributed to the Among of the deficit budget , who has sextuplé , and of the debt public net , who has doubled .
this that the government not recognizes not , but which all the world the makes of more in more that , this is that the good results obtained to the plans budget and Monetary are - to the fact that the be has continued of apply the political adopted by the governments Mulroney , which the Liberal were contrary to the time , to know the reduction of the Estimates of programs pursuant to the needs national real , the creation of a surplus of operating , the reduction of the rate of interest and a reduction of the rate of inflation .
these results , who not have never could be suffering under the former Liberal , and the free - Exchange - are the opposed cleansing these same members dépensiers - are now to the basic of the political current of the government , a government who tait effrontément the efforts tremendous made by the governments Mulroney , who is embarrassed by the subject Opposition that he has benchers against these measures when they have was surtaxes , including the tax on the products and services .
in September 1990 , the Leader of the Party Liberal had said that :
... the Position of the party is clear .
we we opposons to the GST and not want not of his implementation in implement .
recently , the Prime Minister has fact the he of this tax and ruled any attempt of the eliminate , and this even on the equipment of Reading , and that in has before a vote given here in September .
the second point who draw my attention in the speech is more disturbing because he relates on the future of our country .
the government of the Canada ' therefore the commitment that he has took to the Quebecers and all the other Canadians , to know that the principle of or statement by the Court Supreme of the Canada will respected .
added to some comments least nuancés of some relates - speak of the government , this it hear that in case of a referendum , the government Liberal has the intention of interpret to his way the opinion of the Court Supreme on the question of a vote favourable to the sovereignty !
I say opinion because this not is not a decision , but well a opinion that the Court Supreme has made .
nothing in this opinion not locks who that this be .
as to I , the court is feat too far in dépassant the three questions that it was called to manner and , this by , it at to a debate policy who not is not of the resort .
why ?
as I believe that the Court Supreme is feat too far in his out , as I am sorry that the government federal the say prepared to participate to a referendum , not only before that he not the é , but even before that he not be known !
the priority primordiale of all government national is the unity of the country , and never he not should for a with who would to the with of the - this .
in interprétant to his way a series of conditions waves and tortuous of the Court Supreme , the government risk in effect of the find partner in a adventure who could confirm sir to all the Canadians .
I like conclude in about of a subject concern shared by many , this is - to - say the fact that the Parliament , and particularly the House of the Commons , is of more in more déphasé .
I not have never from my admiration for the form of government of the States - United , because their regime based on a system of popularly who limit the excesses which the a of the powers can the delivering only .
the more often , the chairman and the Congress are constantly to the research of compromise , because all the two are the major foreseeable of the development and of the Adopted clear of the laws .
the mistakes of the executive and the camouflages not just not inaperçus well long , because , to the less leaves , the Congress fact inquiry .
he so often , he is true , that the power legislative is exagérément the advantage that he has for delay by a appointment présidentielle or someone other initiative of the executive , but that not much nothing to the fact that the two powers are more or least on a at of equality and can rarely succeed the a without the other .
the House not sitting that since few days when the government has imposed the horses for to end to the debate on the bill of bill C - 6 .
he has attack of in to as for the bill of bill on the agreed final nisga' has .
why ?
simply because these bills of bill , we said - be , have was debated , , and that a study more staged to the Commons not would nothing of nine .
can - be express more clear the for for the democracy Parliamentary ?
unfortunately , the Senate has was treaty to little close of the even manner when he has was reminded for debate the bill of bill C - 32 , on the environment , and the bill of bill C - 78 , on the Pension .
sitôt in as , the new Minister of the Environment has announced that the bill of bill C - 32 had was enough at debated and that no amendment not would agreed .
, the Committee , the majority has imposed the horses , then a report unanimous has was has to the Senate saying that the bill of bill was entaché of so of imperfections that a review should planned immediately after the Adopted .
the horses has was on to the third Reading , the senators government benefiting that , even if the bill of bill had of many faults , he former higher to the bill existante .
in be the bill of bill C - 32 , the majority to the Senate has in fact consciemment seconded a bill of bill all in knowing that he would should to the subject of a review more thorough , that the role by of the Senate .
this not is not that the a of his best accomplishments .
the bill of bill on the Pension has was we of the months of June to the months of September for give to the Council of the Board and to the Alliance of the Fonction public the opportunity of the meet to the over of the was for attempt of correct some misunderstandings , all particularly in this who touchait the are exceed .
the Council of the Board has refused of meet the union for discuss of the question , alléguant that these are belonged to the government .
the new chairman of the Council of the Board the is montrée also inflexible .
be not has therefore given no that of the judgment unanimous of the Senate .
, the over of the debate of third Reading , be we has fact know that if the union wanted to current his claims relatively to the sharing of the surplus , he should administers a any in justice .
that still , the Senate has forsaken his responsibilities traditional to the chapter of the review carefully to of respect a education came of the outside be that the bill of bill be adopted despite his weaknesses .
I have has more earlier that the new Leader of the government to the Senate had was impressed of the amount of work that we our here by report to this who the fact to the other place .
I am of notice that this who the is product in September is should more to the forward who reciting a prorogation that to a effort volunteered in view of reduce the contributions of the Senate to the process Parliamentary and I am sure that to the over of this new session , we reprendrons our responsibilities traditional , all in the always well to the fact of the désirs of the House elected .
I believe well also that the about their be that be withdrew to the Opposition all the these of Committee that it ' except a not are not based .
not any what observer independent not can that recognize that the these of Committee busy by of the colleagues of my party to the over of the first session of the its Parliament have was orchestrated with distinction and to the honour of the Senate .
any attempt of reduce without excuse the contribution of not - supporters of the government to the system of the committees the heurtera to a Yukoners resistance , not not by with - but because that the great value of our institution based on a touchstone of cooperation and not of a step .
, the time where we were specialty of the side of the Opposition , we have success several time - well that with difficulty , I the saying - to the envy of to of the obstruction for the happy of to of the obstruction , this who has was the case during a good part of the years 80 and in 1990 when the roles were overthrow .
we have worked deliberately to the rejection of two bills of bill , regarding the airport Pearson and regarding the spent of the as election , because they were clear anticonstitutionnels .
we how always to the spirit that the will of the representatives elected must be respected , portion that it the timely in the limits of the Constitution .
honourable senators , the success of the Senate the legislation not not by the and of a majority for to adopt of the bills of bill to the steamship , but rather by the contribution of all the senators to the improvement of the measures legislation who we parviennent of the other place .
not to to the Opposition that a role about in this process , this would into the Senate in a image faithful of the House of the Commons and give still more of no to those who are to to abolish our institution .
a such attitude could easily destroy the spirit present of cooperation and of harmony who , he is ironic of the see , not is not abroad to the respect of the Opposition for the Senate , a respect that the majority , I the hope , continue of share .
( on the motion of the Senator Hays , the debate is adjourned . )
bill of bill admissibility the taken of some decisions Medical
second Reading - Adjourned of the debate
- honourable senators , the bill of bill S - 2 has for subject of facilitate the taken of decisions Medical by of the patients in perpetuate against any responsibility criminal the coping who respect the wishes of their patients .
more specifically , the bill of bill clarifie the laws in perpetuate the coping who the abstiennent of administering a treatment of survival to the ask of the patient or in interrompent the Administration , or who administrent of the pharmacare to of inevitable of strong hear physical .
this bill of bill for also that the Minister of the Health can establish of the lines guidelines national and promote the education and the training relatively to the forbearance of administering of the treatment of survival , of deal the pain and of administering of the care palliative or to their interruption .
the bill of bill S - 2 , which the as abrégé is Act admissibility the taken of some decisions Medical , is the third bill of bill of this such to be presented in this House these past years .
honourable senators , the 27 November 1996 , I have presented the bill of bill S - 13 , to to amend the Code criminal ( protection of the coping ) .
this bill of bill is was in plan during of the outbreak of the election federal in May 1997 .
, the over of the last session of the its Parliament , the Senator Th Lavoie - Roux has presented the bill of bill S - 29 , who had the even objective General that the bill of bill S - 13 , the protection of the patients and of the coping .
the bill of bill S - 29 is death to the Paper during of the prorogation of the Parliament in September .
, my notice , the bill of bill S - 2 , Act admissibility the taken of some decisions Medical , intègre the better of the bills of bill S - 13 and S - 29 .
however , I to that he be well clear for all the senators that I not consider not this bill of bill as the hall .
I the consider as the bill of bill of the Committee Special of the Senate on the Suicide and the assistance to the suicide .
he is the result of the work of the former Senator Joan Flynn , of the senators Lavoie - Roux , Corbin , Beaudoin , DeWare , Keon and I - even , since I have sat to the Committee , I also .
if I devais balladeer this bill of bill to someone a , this would to the late Senator ë at , who , even the he not was not member to on full of the Committee , has replaced her the Senator DeWare several months , for that it solve the husband patient , and who has continued of dialogue with we until to this that he be him - even to the taken with a illness seeks .
the honourable senators will that the bill of bill S - 2 starts by a preamble .
the 23 February 1994 , the Committee Senate Special on the Suicide and the assistance to the suicide has was up for to the aspects legal , social and Ethics of the Suicide and of the assistance to the suicide .
they have with to the care palliative and to the refusal of receive a treatment for to maintain the duties ingenuity or to the v. of this type of treatment .
they have with to the control of the pain .
the 6 June 1995 , the Committee has submitted to the Senate the report entitled : " De the life and of the death " .
that I , the preamble of this bill of bill is essential for give to the Senate the deserves who him with of full right .
some editors of laws not unhappy not the préambules .
however , in the case this , he not is not only positive , but he makes justice to the Committee , who has worked very durum .
I like now speak of points speak of the bill of bill S - 2 .
the section 2 of the bill of bill for that no provider of care of health not can be recognized found of a offence in under of the Code criminal for have administered to a human of the pharmacare with the intention of inevitable or of to people his suffering physical , to of the approaching as abréger his life .
in the report entitled : " De the life and of the death " , the Committee Senate Special recognizes that the practice who is to deal the patient of manner to inevitable his suffering , even if it can abréger the life of the patient , is now legal .
the Code criminal not banned not the care palliative , even if that can abréger the life of the patient , in as that the care are Service of way consistent to the practices Medical generally our .
however , a sure number of witnesses have said to the Committee that the doctors hésitaient often to administering enough of pharmacare antidouleur if that walked of abréger the life of the patients , of fear of be held criminellement responsible of the Late of their patients .
of very many witnesses him to described the confusion who from as in the professionals of the health that to the within of the public in General as to the legality of the practice , the Committee Senate Special has recommended to the unanimously that the provisions appropriate of the Code criminal be forthcoming .
many are the doctors the spécialisant in the care palliative who would that the treatment of the pain not abrège never the life of the patient .
that some evidence collected , when the does of the pharmacare is well resolved , the patients the adaptent simply to the through increased of the pharmacare administered .
however , we not in have no evidence and , to my notice , that not is not the true question .
all as that we are , we should ensure to this that the patients to the Canada suffering the least possible .
the Committee Senate not is not the only to clamour that be clarifie the provisions of the Code criminal who them on the possible of administering a treatment who , all in atténuant the pain , risk of abréger the life of the patient .
the Board of reform of the right had some the even recommendation in a report that it has was in 1983 .
of more , the Association medical Canadian written the confusion of the bill in this field since 1992 .
the Committee Senate Special flies the expression more general of " treatment for to inevitable the suffering " , but the section 2 of the bill of bill is some of way to who the situations where of the pharmacare are administered for inevitable of the suffering émotionnelles or psychological .
, my notice , he must user of prudence and nothing in this bill of bill not should significant the controversy , and yet we know all that the treatment of the suffering émotionnelle or psychological prepared to the controversy .
the section 2 not protects not the coping in the case where he could there have a other such of responsibility criminal , as the neglect criminal .
honourable senators , understand - I well : the section 2 not the applies absolutely not to the case where he there has intention of resulting the death .
he not the applies that in the case where the be to inevitable the suffering physical of the patient .
he is very important of the out .
none not should 8.4 to his responsibility criminal if the intention is of killing someone a .
the paragraph 3 ( 1 ) of the bill of bill S - 2 for that the soignant not is not found of a offence scheduled by the Code criminal of the only fact that to the ask of a human able , he the abstient of him administering a treatment of survival or in abrupt the Administration .
the paragraph 3 ( 2 ) clarifie the circumstances in which a ask is considered valid to the for of the paragraph 3 ( 1 ) .
of the instructions written pre , ensure to the laws of a province , will always is .
the most of the provinces have already adopted of the provisions legislation on the instructions pre .
the Alberta is the last province to have adopted a bill to this about ; in effect , the Personal Guidelines Act has was proclaimed and is into in effect the 1 December 1997 .
the Manitoba , Newfoundland - Newfoundland , the Nova - Nova , the Ontario and the Quebec have also légalisé the drafting of this that the be Order , in the niceties , the testaments biological .
the British - British and to the Island - Edward - Prince - Edward have adopted of the laws in this s , but those - this not are not still in effect .
, is of instructions written data préalablement pursuant to the laws of a province , of the guidelines written not official or a ask made unfettered or by warning , in presence of to the least a witness , are a ask valid .
the paragraph 3 ( 3 ) for that a other ask can be made by a agent , a representative legal or a earnings , but only if the patient not has not the ability of the to or if , for that he in was able , he not has not fact of ask valid .
in the report entitled : " De the life and of the death " , the Committee Senate Special has defined the forbearance of treatment of survival as the the fact of not not initiate a treatment is of maintain the patient in life , by example not not attempt the dying cardiorespiratoire ( RCR ) , not not give a blood therapy , not not administering of antibiotics or not not ensure the food and the hydratation artificielles .
he has defined the interruption as the fact of stop a treatment is of maintain the patient in life , by example débrancher the respirateur .
the Committee Senate Special has has that the courts Canadian have recognized to the patients the right in way way of refuse a treatment medical or of such that a treatment , a time began , be interrompu .
in of the Affairs as Malettec. Schulman , in 1990 , Nancy B . . Hôtel - God of Quebec , in 1992 and in the case Rodriguez , in 1993 , the courts have clear recognized this right , even if the make of this forbearance or of this interruption of treatment of survival is the death .
I think that he is important of to on some of these causes with you .
in the case Mallettec. Schulman , in 1990 , the Court of call of the Ontario has said that the instructions on the transfusions system data for that a hear in was able were be followed , even if it not had not the ability of take a decision .
the court has felt that the doctor was respect the instructions written of a witness of Jéhovah who refuses any blood therapy , even in a situation of emergency where the hear not could give the consent .
, the words of the decision that it has made in January 1992 in the case Nancy B . , the Court Superior of the Quebec has felt that the hear - able , it of a illness incurable and alitée until to the end of his days , had the right of ask that the doctor débranche the respirateur who the maintenait in life .
in by his decision , the Justice Dufour has quoted the sections of the Code Civil of the Quebec that which the human human is inviolable and none not can be forced of order a treatment without the consent .
this case address also of the responsibility criminal of the doctor who was , to the ask of Nancy B . , débrancher the respirateur .
after the be order to the sections 216 , 217 , 45 and 219 of the Code criminal , and that to the provisions on the the homicide , the Justice has an that a doctor not was not evidence of a conduct unreasonable , gratuite or entailed in débranchant the respirateur of a hear to the ask of the - this and in leaving the illness of the hear follow the over natural .
in 1993 , Mr. the Justice Sopinka , of the Court Supreme of the Canada , who has prepared the decision majority in the case Rodriguez , has also recognized the right of the patients of not not increase to a treatment or of ask that the treatment be interrompu , even if the death was in revisited .
he is important of the remind that , in this case , the majority not was not in favour of the Suicide and of the assistance to the suicide .
it was however in favour of the right to the forbearance or to the interruption of the treatment , right who is the subject of the bill of bill to the study .
however , honourable senators , of the witnesses have said before the Committee Special that , in some case , be not had not respected the deliberations of the patients because that the Code criminal not was not clear and that the coping did of be held responsible .
, because of these evidence on the confusion who there among the coping and the public in General , the Committee Senate Special has recommended to new to the unanimously that the way way in effect be codifiée of way to clarify the circumstances in which he is legally acceptable of not not provide or of interrupt a treatment of survival .
still that , the Committee Senate not was not the Prime to recommend that the right be clarifié in this field .
in 1983 , the Board of reform of the right of the Canada had recommended it also that the Code criminal be clarifié to this regard .
since 1992 , the Association medical Canadian advocating that the Code criminal be clarifié in this who with the right legal of to end to a treatment to of to the coping to the from of the from .
honourable senators , the section 6 of the bill of bill S - 2 is the more is example of the fusionnement of my bill of bill distinct , the S - 13 , and of the bill of bill of the Senator Lavoie - Roux , the S - 29 .
the bill of bill S - 29 provided the institution of lines guidelines for the treatment of the pain and for the forbearance and the interruption of treatment of survival .
the section 6 of the this bill of bill for that the Minister of the Health - , in cooperation with the authorities provincial and the associations of the professionals of the health , of the lines guidelines national relatively to the forbearance and to the interruption of treatment of survival , to the treatment of the pain and to the care palliative .
the bill of bill allows to the Minister of the Health of promote and of encourage the education of the great public and the training of the professionals of the health regarding the treatment of the pain and the care palliative .
the bill of bill for also that the be monitors the number of time that he there will had forbearance or interruption of the treatment of survival and that the be slow of the investigation and that the be it of the research to this effect .
in the report entitled : " De the life and of the death " , the Committee Special of the Senate has recognized the importance of lines guidelines national in these areas .
of many witnesses who are came before the Committee have recommended that be give more of information and of training to the providers of care of health on the care palliative and the control of the pain .
almost all the witnesses who have appeared before the Committee Special of the Senate the canvassing to say that of the research more courses were necessary in these areas .
honourable senators , the bill of bill S - 2 is the result direct of the work of the Committee Special of the Senate on the Suicide and the suicide attended .
, my notice , he has the best elements of the two bills of bill precedents who have was made to the Senate .
he is to clarify the right pénal in codifiant the way way existante and in the by accessible and understandable for all the Canadians , to of protect the patients and their providers of care of health .
I am with forward the debate on this bill of bill .
this who is more important still , I am with forward the study in Committee , where be will and they this legislation of way more thorough .
I am particularly pleased of the participation of the Senator Lavoie - Roux , who , as I , to that the recommendations of the Committee Special of the Senate among bill .
this bill of bill not is can - be not still exactly this that he must .
unfortunately , in as that people human , we not are not very .
I hope that the Committee Senate of the Affairs legal and Constitutional will this bill of bill carefully to of the ensure that he does to the needs of the Canadians and that he there grist of the amendments for the improve to the need .
I to that this bill of bill be also good that he can the be , and I know that this is also that the desire of the Senator Lavoie - Roux and of the other members of the Committee Special of the Senate .
I hope that we able refer this bill of bill quickly to the Committee to that the study , who , of by his nature , will many of time , can begin without delay , before that the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional , recognized for his long p.m. and the from responsible , not be to the taken with the job for of the measures legislation of initiative government .
honourable senators , I you urge to to the bill of bill S - 2 and I you urge to the support .
the hon. Douglas Roche :
her the Senator would - it of answer to a question ?
the Senator Carstairs :
certainly .
the Senator Roche :
thank .
I to of first express my recognition to the Senator Carstairs for the kindly which it has fact evidence in what the bill of bill .
I hope that he there will a debate thorough on this important question and that be not cherchera not to the wiser of this bill of bill to the forward , to that be has ample the opportunity , as to the step of the second Reading to the Senate that to the step of the study in Committee , of in to the review that he deserves .
in as of preparedness to my contribution to the debate of this night , I like for two questions to the Senator Carstairs , if it the to well .
of first , the Senator Carstairs has said without was that the bill of bill was to relieve the pain and not to écourter the life , but as the fact of relieve the pain can have for effect of écourter the life , the Senator Carstairs lead - it that that can open the relates to the suicide attended ?
it has said very clear that of the treatment tremendous for extend the life not are not necessary of a point of view déontologique , but , in the treatment of the patients in Phase seeks , not there has he not a danger that the various pressure the acted can all to a form of your or of pressure in favour of the use of pharmacare atténuant the pain to of the for secret , or to of the for not déclarées openly , who consistent in fact to écourter the life ?
the Senator Carstairs :
honourable senators , I thank the Senator of his question , because that such is guarantee the part essential of any the question .
this is why we must have of the lines guidelines and of the means of control .
I renverrais the Senator to the catéchisme of the Church Catholic , including to the section 2279 , because that the difference there is enough clear stated .
the catéchisme said this :
even if the death is judged imminente , be not can legitimately interrupt the care ordinary to I to a patient .
the use of analgésiques for relieve the suffering of the mourant , even to the risk of abréger his days , can be considered morally consistent to the dignity human , if the death not is not deal as a end or a way .
for I , this such of confusion is if necessary that if the bill of bill not the contains not , we must we ensure that it there is .
I think that this is already the case , but if , modifions - the for that this be absolutely clear .
the Senator Roche :
I thank the hon. Senator .
the response is certainly useful to the essential of the debate .
my second question relates on the Code criminal .
I not see not very well why the bill of bill is to codifier the way way existante or to Authorize some actions who could indeed be which as of the actions criminals without have to amend the Code criminal him - even .
why to - be avoid of amend the Code criminal in be the bill of bill ?
the Senator Carstairs :
honourable senators , still a time , I thank the hon. Senator of his question .
he is interesting of out that , in the Prime bill of bill that I have presented , he there had a amendment of the Code criminal .
however , to the over of the debate and of the discussions to the Senate , and also by the on , in the bill of bill of the Senator Lavoie - Roux , he is became obvious that we take more that a amendment of the Code criminal .
we tentions also of establish of the lines guidelines national and of to in place of the measures of control and of to to of the experiences and of the business of research on the control of the pain .
( on the motion of the Senator DeWare , to the behalf of the Senator Lavoie - Roux , the debate is adjourned . )
the strategy of the housing for the aboriginal
inquiry - Adjourned of the debate
the hon. Thelma J . Chalifoux , pursuant to the notice of the 14 October 99 :
- honourable senators , he is difficult for the most of the Canadians of understand why he sphere of the differences between the conditions of life and the challenges of the aboriginal and those of the other citizens of the Canada .
he is also difficult for them of understand why he must adopt of the solutions different in reason of the situation , of the rights , of the values and of the potential of the aboriginal .
that is can - be difficult to understand , but he is essential of the understand for power advance in harmony .
the strategy of the housing is to determine if the recent decisions of the government federal will of improve the conditions of housing of the families aboriginal and if of important improvements can be made to the strategy federal current .
this document of work is for to facilitate a real dialogue on the major makes of a strategy who we will enter in the next century and on the better way of the to in implement .
we have chosen of we stop on the forces of all the Peoples to the Canada and the sources of these forces for in come to a strategy contemporary .
a source of force sometimes overlooked and implementation of side is the will and the right of the Peoples aboriginal - the tis , the Inuit and the members of the First Nations - of seek and of to in implement their own solutions .
this is this force who has has the launch with success of hundreds of initiatives from of the basic .
sometimes , they have was gênées by of the tracasseries administrative or not have could all for a reason whatever .
of other initiatives from of the aboriginal them - same have has the form of the networks regional and then national , and that of the institutions important on which we comptons now .
if we can better combiner the points strong of the aboriginal and of the Canadians in General and been these forces for improve the housing , we will fact many more that anyone could the there expect .
I will now me with on the scope and the subject of the strategy in s of housing for the families aboriginal .
some can think that we not have not need of a other study on the conditions of housing or a study on the ways of amend the programs national in the hope that the families aboriginal can in from some benefits .
we are of agreed .
too of these studies have already was with and have led to a low improvement of the conditions of life .
of more , we have all could benefit of the advice and of the research without precedent of the Board Royal on the Peoples aboriginal , in 1996 .
we insensitive now the first accomplishments of the initiative " Gathering our forces " , the plan of action that the government federal has initiated in January 1997 .
we had hoped that of other partners in the Confederation annonceraient them also their plans and their priorities .
, this chapter , we are disappointed .
some progress are weaknesses , but several senators and leaders aboriginal the concern of more in more of the lack of measures concrete taken for improve the conditions of housing of the families aboriginal .
we want cottage a dialogue national on the need of establish a strategy clear and more dynamic in s of housing for the families aboriginal .
we want we stop on the direction future of a strategy for the families alive to the outside of the reserves and of the Lands with of side for the Peoples aboriginal in the framework of agreements on the claims land concern .
the families aboriginal alive on these Lands have , to the words of treaties and of the bill , of the conditions of housing who diffèrent many of those of the families alive , .
what that he in be , any strategy in s of housing must to that of the mouvements of public on these Lands .
many of tis , of Inuit and of members of the First Nations will leave the communities ancestrales for be of the work , of the opportunities prometteuses and of the housing decent in the major and small cities of the Canada .
this is a trend growing who will the continue .
be knows well also that their rate of natalité is higher to the average national , all as the number of their young is more high , since the public aboriginal is 10 years more young that the public in General .
he there has 50 years , be dénombrait least of 200 . aboriginal .
today today , he there in has more of 1 million who live to the Canada .
this figure not includes not however the public of the tis of the country .
many of other aboriginal live to the States - United and can or not to to the country after their years of work .
be for that the public aboriginal will increase cutting . people to the over of the next generation .
his conditions Social and economic not found that of modest improvements .
a strategy in s of housing reasonable must power answer to the needs future some of the public aboriginal and to the new priorities .
I will now explain why the conditions and the problems of housing of the aboriginal are different .
a reason important for which more of the half of the families aboriginal live today today in of the housing lower to the standards is a great poverty persistante .
many are often on the point of the on in the street or will live in of the communities rural , urban and vital already surpeuplées .
the jobs that the aboriginal find are difficulty paid and they must use to the appreciates their cheque of paye for answer to the needs basic in food and in Clothing of families more many that the average .
be believe that the income of employment of the aboriginal 1 to the two third of , of the average national .
more of 40 per of between them not had not of income of employment in 1995 .
they have little or not of credit .
that arriverait - he if the aboriginal were obtain the 50 with the Canadians means in s of employment and of salary ?
course , that their would a level of life higher and all the Canada in profiterait .
in 1991 , the former Minister of the Affairs Indian and of the North Canadian , Thomas Siddon , stated that , the he there had 50 of here the year 2000 , the product national gross of the Canada would of increase the income tax of the government federal of 4,3 billion of $ and of reduce the debt national of 20 billion of $ .
the commission Royal there is feat of his own analysis on this point .
it has esteemed that he in cost to the Canada 7,5 billion of $ double as that the circumstances economic and Social of the Peoples aboriginal demeureraient pushed to the average national .
he any of note that this amount 1 to a loss of income net of 2,9 billion of $ for the Peoples aboriginal , combinée to a cost tax of 4,6 billion of $ , there including 2,1 billion of $ under form of lack to gain for the government .
unfortunately , a strategy to to answer to the needs in s of housing will tragic with a problem of poverty aiguë in the aboriginal , because that nothing not as that the disparités economic and Social between the public in General and the aboriginal will soon people .
the recent increase of the rate of literacy and of the levels of education in General will some families , but the housing done would inabordables for a well too great number of aboriginal .
the vertical economic have was reduced many too slowly to the over of the 20 past years for let believe that the be the is served of the problem of the poverty in the aboriginal .
some are more evident that of other .
taken together , these reasons have caused many of difficulties .
if we want we stop of a strategy in s of housing who based on of the basis solid , he would course of to some of these reasons .
the discrimination under all his forms remains the a of the causes who follows the sad situation of the housing in the aboriginal .
it was to this time the beside of Corporation core of Residential and of housing .
close of 30 years more later , the program of housing rural to the intention of the aboriginal has seen the day .
the Program of housing of the aboriginal in community urbain has followed in 1978 .
the new commitments in s of housing in the framework of these programs have took end in even time that the government federal has up of take of the commitments in s of housing social the 1 January 1994 . Pendant any his office , the program of housing of the aboriginal not has never fact the subject of a assessment .
the disparités held also to the low priority granted to the questions of housing of the aboriginal .
this situation could including the explain by the lack of representation aboriginal to the Parliament of the Canada and of participation of the aboriginal to the service public federal .
the arcanes of the power rely little of aboriginal for draw the attention on the problems woefully or on their solutions .
that allowed many more easily of forget the conditions in which they Cree .
fair to the time where the Canadians six to be more aware of the needs of the aboriginal , the priorities national have changed .
this situation with fact that the conditions of life upgraded of the Canadians éclipsent the reality of the aboriginal .
honourable senators , the idea that which the problems aboriginal and the solutions to there to not are that a version reduced of the problems existing and of the solutions to to to the has of the Canada is a other reason who ask the responding results and accomplishments to the within of the companies aboriginal .
nothing not relates to believe that a similar strategy has of of good results to the over of the years .
in reality , this is a model not to more of credibility , and of important studies of the conditions Social and economic , there including the study of December 1998 on the clochardise , " the Adopted of strategies separate for to that of the realities which are opposite the aboriginal .
well that of the services to the aboriginal be came the add to the programs of management of the housing , the political and programs of basic are those who are designed for solve the problems not aboriginal , and the governments federal and provincial in are the managers .
the problems of jurisdiction their to the housing of the aboriginal through , that on the Lands réservées to these people we all insurmountable .
the most of the authorities provincial , land and aboriginal the in constrained essentially to the government federal .
yet , the transfers of funds , the points of tax , the powers and the Administration overwhelmingly more of responsibilities to the provinces .
this transfer of skills raises the controversy and freine the progress of this matter .
this not are that that few - few of the reasons who follows the differences observed to the as of the housing of the aboriginal and of the difficulties Sectoral to this as by these the .
we the memories in the hope that they we undoubtedly to find of the solutions future to the problem of the housing .
he not there had not of bad intentions to the departure .
the reasons historic and juridico - political to the poverty , to the impuissance and to the blood subis by the companies aboriginal reviewers a other problem - which are of the commission Royal of inquiry and the evidence of many leaders aboriginal .
he will without say that these reasons prépondérantes persuade of all their negative on the status socioéconomique on of the aboriginal today today .
honourable senators , I like now speak briefly of the consequences of the strategies federal fellow .
the strategies federal of the 25 past years have was reduced to a from of grants for of the brought in of , of the upkeep of emergency , a include program of construction domiciliaire , a program precise of construction of housing in community urbain , a program of construction in community rural to for objective a rate of occupation of 50 per of the housing by of the aboriginal , of the appropriation of tax , of the Allowance for the housing , and of the bills of self - assistance , including of from to the ownership , who have fact long gun .
the authorities provincial and municipal have in to the Estimates incurred , but in part only .
, as of example , the program of housing of the aboriginal in community urbain not has was supported that by the loyers paid by the aboriginal and of the grants federal .
of the committees tripartites have was constitués , are participaient in some case of the once of services .
of the forecasts of Estimates recent of the RRRAP regarding the aboriginal outside reserves were of of a expenditure Annual of the order of 172,5 million of $ to the as of the housing .
the programs more important of construction in as urbain and rural have for to of the families aboriginal of live in of the housing to price reasonable .
Quelque10 8,700 housing urban are through to of the families aboriginal ; he the is of housing social them and moreover by a 100 of companies to purpose not profit .
someone 9 per other housing them in community rural are busy by of the families aboriginal .
the most have was " through to of the programs of assistance to the from to the ownership .
these figures vary that the source and are filed by of many leaders aboriginal .
this are that few - each of the results positive of the strategies federal pensioners .
, that he must add the results positive of programs of renovate , of upkeep of emergency , of research and of démonstration , without forget the programs to the intention of the people seniors and of the people disabilities .
for those and those who not connaîtraient not the vertical observed in the conditions of housing , a series of chamber is in as .
I déposerai the Room " .
honourable senators , say that the vertical are great not enough not to understand the life difficult that slow the tis , the Inuit and the Peoples of the First Nations .
a family aboriginal on three has a need government of housing , compared to a family not aboriginal on 10 .
the need government of housing is a legislation fundamental for determine that a family in in of the conditions pushed to the normal and not has not the means of the to a greater habitable get .
he there has 10 , about 63 . families aboriginal had a need government of housing .
the public has increased and the percentage of the families to a need government of housing rest three time more high that the average national .
the number of coin not has of increase .
the report of December 1998 of the Group of work of the mayor on the without - from of Toronto which a other impact of the strategies who have failed in this field .
in 1996 , someone 4 . aboriginal were without - from in the only region of Toronto .
someone 8 . other risquaient of the on in this situation , there including of many children .
he is poses that the situation who prevails to Toronto the apparent to the who has over in of other cities , including the six other cities Canadian who are densément peuplées of aboriginal .
a aboriginal on five in in seven areas metropolitan .
this are that of the figures were , but he we must alters more the effects of the strategies federal fellow if we want from of the lessons of the mistakes and of the opportunities missed and one on the points strong .
a of these points strong , this is the evolution of the companies aboriginal of housing .
these companies the are luck very useful and fiables .
the Hon. the Speaker :
Senator Chalifoux , I am sorry of you interrupt , but your 15 minutes are period .
are - you the Authorized of continue ?
the Senator Chalifoux :
yes .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the leave is - it granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator Chalifoux :
I you thank , honourable senators .
of the hundreds and of the hundreds of volunteers have spent of their time to these companies then that the dozen of employees dedicated the are busy of manage the business of construction , of maintain the granny of housing and of to of the services to the locataires and to the claimants .
the matter urbain to him only worth now more of 500 million of $ .
any a range of services are available by the staff in as and of other services are availability by the through of a system public established between various agencies of services aboriginal , this who includes of the programs as the Program of assistance préscolaire to the aboriginal , the activities cultural , the training and the investment and that the services and activities of the centres of reaction the case if .
of the positions are created in the field of the construction and of the maintenance , of the contracts are accorded to of the businesses , of the taxes foncières and of the taxes are doctoral , and particularly , of the families have the opportunity of the take in with and of the start on the market private .
I can you speak of a family , by example .
for the first time , I can buy of the oranges for my children . "
they expect of in have the opportunity them also .
this is a wonderful way of strengthen their identity , a way essential of keep the young aboriginal to the from of the bad situations in which the find many of young , and that the Access to the school .
a modest housing in of best will has of the tranquility of spirit and a sense of security to the women , to the children and to the Seniors aboriginal .
these results not are not the headlines , but they have record the life better to many of people and they have created a ability and a desire of to well more .
the relations remain still médiocres between the aboriginal and some governments local , but they can become best with the time .
, the least , the problems of housing and the companies of habitation have for of initiate a dialogue , if nothing of other not can the help .
the companies of habitation aboriginal have also someone something of rare .
this is the only institution who its a profile to day of the families aboriginal and who provides the way of the reach easily .
their cherished of Awaiting , jointes to those of the locataires existing , their allow of in know a little to about of thousands of families aboriginal and to about of the evolution of their conditions of existence .
that is a tool important for coordinating the services to the more those in the society aboriginal .
what are the choice for a future strategy to to answer to the needs of the aboriginal in s of housing and to the new priorities ?
the conditions gloomy of housing that are the Peoples aboriginal alternatives to such that be take of the measures .
despite that , of other priorities the are day who outlays the attention .
that of the figures recent , 46p. per of the children aboriginal of least of five years who live in the major areas metropolitan live in of the families 9,300 .
this rate represents seven time the rate for the public in General .
close of a third of all the children aboriginal live in of the families 9,300 .
the most of the families 9,300 have to their head a woman .
he will to in place a strategy extremely well coordinated for satisfy to the needs of these families in s of housing and of health , for satisfy to their needs Cultural and economic and for satisfy to the needs of the young children .
the trend demographics fact upon the young age of the public aboriginal , and this trend the will .
the number of children of least of five years by woman aboriginal in age of procréer is 70 time more high that the rate for the total of the public Canadian .
of the salaries there and a rate of unemployment high are makes among the young , still more among the young aboriginal .
since that he has was ' end to the construction of new housing funded in 1994 , the list of the aboriginal in Awaiting of a housing the is allongée .
he is obvious that the granny of housing social present not can welcome the families aboriginal or not the accept not .
these past years , the provinces have reduced their commitments or there have ' end and he not there not of figure reliable on the number of families aboriginal logées in of the housing social .
he any of to out that the housing social are made on the basic of the audit of the solvabilité and of the below of the income , this who banned the access of the aboriginal to of the housing funded for to the not - aboriginal .
the commission Royal has esteemed that he will necessary of build 17 . new housing and of proceed to of important business of one on 37 . other for power settling the backlog between 1996 and 2016 .
in addition , 21 higher new coin - to the growth demographics and to the training of new families will also need of assistance .
without assistance financial , the level of life of these people should cut still , and the number of families in the need should increase .
, the on of the decisions taken recently by the government federal , of the funds for the Administration of the housing social have was transferred to the provinces who have agreed this arrangement .
the Ontario , the Quebec , the British - British and the Alberta have now deliberation for this formula .
the agreements of transfer automobiles the programs of housing for the aboriginal in the areas rural and urban .
the process of transfer has brought enormous of conflict and of differences between the RRRAP and the providers of housing aboriginal .
including , the companies urban of housing aboriginal have préconisé of the transfers direct to the companies of housing aboriginal by the through of agreements position and of a body national of coordination .
this Position is well known and is order to the policy of transfer of the programs to the provinces .
this such of arrangement has of the precedents including in the centres of training and of reaction .
the argumentations against the transfers federal to the provinces are historic , constitutional and profoundly enracinés in the objectives of autodétermination of the Peoples aboriginal .
they insistent also on the lack of consultation to the regard of these transfers .
of enemies consultation are a principle sir in the evolution of the relations with the Peoples aboriginal and a principle seconded by the Court Supreme of the Canada in of the judgments as the judgment Sparrow .
he there has also of the reasons of policy and of operating daily to the challenge of the transfers provincial .
in fact , nothing not proves that the provinces can better administering of the programs that the companies urban of housing aboriginal .
no assessment independent not the has never revealed not more .
by against , be knows that of the measures key as the institution of the apartment in service of the income of the locataires can be need unilaterally to the and of the provinces .
the RRRAP has tried of ensure to the companies of housing for aboriginal that their interests in their conserving of housing are protected in the agreements of transfer and that they not the in conservation not more difficulty .
these assurance have was very little convaincantes .
they believe have the right , well mérité , of take of the decisions they - same .
if they decision of conclude of the agreements with the provinces or with the authorities local by the on , this will their choice , a choice based on their political and on their programs .
the question is of know the he must cancel the transfer of the programs aboriginal and negotiate of the agreements of transfer with the companies of housing for aboriginal who the wish or let in place the strategy federal of transfer of the responsibilities to the provinces .
of very solid arguments have was made in favour of the Alternative , by a model aboriginal , of the model of the needs government who legislation the uniqueness affordable , the Standards to the needs and the standards of Conformity in the society Canadian .
for of the reasons evident , this model quoting that also of the security of the family and of the practices cultural .
he refléterait better the reality aboriginal when he the is of assessment the needs and of develop of the strategies for there answer .
he would of do to the future of the strategies on the housing for to of the objectives that continuing already of the companies of housing who not are to little close not our by the governments .
in provide these objectives , be " of the storms to the aboriginal , be will that of the needs of the great - parents and of the Seniors , of the practices spirituelles , of the access to the activities cultural , of the programs of the small boyhood and of the services aboriginal regarding the assistance financial and the assistance in s of employment .
the strategy of housing should be more to even of protect the families of the crime and of the violence which they can be victims to because of their heritage aboriginal .
the changes made to the Act national on the habitation and to the Act on the Corporation Canadian of Residential and of housing , who have received the Assent Royal the 17 June 99 , have of to the RRRAP of the tools more solid for to of the assistance and deal with of the types more many of organizations , if be in believes the testimony of the officials of the RRRAP , who have was heard by the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology the 9 June 99 . said power increased facilitera can - be the transfer of powers real and of a sure control to a new Administration aboriginal of the housing .
this strategy 1 to the key recommendation that has worded the Committee Standing of the Affairs aboriginal in 1992 after of long deliberations and consultation .
the Committee , up of representatives of all the parties , has between other recommended that the funding of the housing aboriginal be administered by the through of a only body which the mandate sell the granting of loans , the insurance , the development of political , the taken of decisions , the management of programs , the research , the training , the development economic and the funding .
, the over of a recent convention on the housing organized by the Assembly of the First Nations , the leaders have préconisé a structure similar for satisfy to the needs of the members of the First Nations .
the new Administration aboriginal of the housing would independent and would the ability of to of the laws for the aboriginal .
it would also the power of negotiate of the agreements with of the departments federal and that of coordinating or of to to of the thousands of families of the services of training and of investment , of the services their to the development of the young children , of the services of health and of education and of the assistance to the development of the businesses .
a such strategy would also to the companies of the housing of to more with the resources financial to their clause .
the difference between the rate créditeur federal and the rate débiteur federal could serve to fund more of houses and to support the research on the best initiatives and the management .
that would also of develop of new services and products stretched to the borrowing mortgage for help the families aboriginal .
these services could englober the Purchase and the maintenance of local for the students and the care of health , because he would possible of better use the someone 200 million of $ that expenditure the government federal for these local .
honourable senators , the transfer of these attributions federal can the to without that he be necessary of adopt of new provisions legislation .
he would probably that the Prime Minister the prévale of the powers that him authority the Act on the restructurations and the transfers of attributions in the Administration public , and that the all be formalizes by of the agreements of transfers done .
, long term , be could propose and adopt of new provisions legislation to to recognize the existence of authorities local aboriginal in s of housing , authorities which the powers , the duties and the makes on the plan legal would unique .
these authorities local not will more of the companies without purpose profit and they could create of the businesses and of the jobs in their communities .
they will the expression of the autodétermination of the aboriginal .
this is to the legislators that he is now of to in implement a strategy aboriginal global audacieuse or of simply draft the strategy federal existante .
the government the before on the serious circumstances that live the families may of the on in the street , or who there are already , there including the families aboriginal .
we believe that , in the major cities , the system who provides of the services to the without - from aboriginal is the key of any strategy to to help these without - from and that any injected of money nine should the to to the way of this system .
the research as of way again that he must develop without delay a strategy and a plan of action for to in implement of the solutions to this problem pressing .
given of that Health Canada has said that a - doing was considerations for the health , the problem of the without - from require that of the measures be taken as now .
we must study seriously the recommendations made by on of studies , of investigation and of evidence to of to of the advice precise .
the recommendations and the plan of action undoubtedly the Minister responsible of the without - from .
this study not must not be reléguée to the oubliettes .
in as that Canadians and parliamentarians , we must not only answer to this need pressing , but also develop a plan of action who will to all the families aboriginal the place who their with in the society Canadian .
the companies of housing for the aboriginal have a expertise .
they have only need of a opportunity and of a transfer of skills for to their work .
honourable senators , have - I the leave of table the Room " which I have spoke ?
the Hon. the Speaker :
the leave is - it granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator Chalifoux :
thank .
( on the motion of the Senator Rompkey , the debate is adjourned . )
( the Senate the adjourned to the Wednesday 3 November 99 , to 13 p.m. 30 . )
debates of the Senate ( Hansard )
wondering Session , Session st ,
volume 6,401 , Issue 5
the Wednesday 3 November 99
the hon. Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker
table of the Contents
the crisis agricultural current
the leave of adjourn pursuant to the section 60 of the Rules to of to a question high of interest public
Affairs routine
transport and Communications
Authorized to the Committee of sit in even time that the Senate
the Committee of selection
Presented of the fourth report
the Code criminal
bill of bill Amend - First Reading
the Union Parliamentary
the four - ninety - 10 - eighteenth conference held to Oulan Batour , in Mongolie - Report of the report of the group Canadian
the Act on the languages official
the services in French available to the francophones outside Quebec - Notice of inquiry
PERIOD PERIOD question
the Court Supreme
the appointment of the hon. Beverley McLachlin to the as of Justice in Leader
the Defence national
the restructuring of the units of contingency of the Canada Atlantic - - 1 Canadian of Surplus of campaign of the Artillerie Royal Canadian
the Senate
the efforts to to increase the representation of the minorities visible
the development of the resources human
the efforts to to increase the representation of the minorities visible
the Nations overseeing
the disarmament nuclear - Position policy of the government opposite to the resolution of the New Agenda Coalition
the Affairs foreign
the new ambassador with of the Organization World of the trade - Position possible of a contract of consultation with the employer of the former ambassador - Request of Tabled of documents
the Finance
the dévaluation of the dollar - - influence on the Purchase of companies Canadian by of the interests foreign
answers delayed to of the questions Oral
the environment
the Nova - Nova - Position responsibility of the with of the sites of PCB toxins
the Defence national
the Nova - Nova - Position responsibility of the prospect of the damage occur by the floods in the coincidental of Cumberland
the business of the Senate
order DAY THE
the speech of the Throne
motion of Adopted of the is in response - Continued of the debate
the Adresse in response - Motion Honourable to to end to the debate the eighteenth day of Senate - Adjourned of the debate
the Code criminal
bill of bill Amend - Second Reading
referred to the Committee - Adopted of the motion of amendment
Affairs legal and Constitutional
motion Requesting the Authorized of use the documents and evidence collected during of the review of the bill of bill precedent for the study of the bill of bill present - Adjourned of the debate
the consequences of the Union Monetary European
Authorized to the Committee of the Affairs foreign of Services of the staff
Affairs foreign
the amendment of the mandate of the Organization of the Treaty of the Atlantic North - Adopted of the report budget of the Committee on the study
the strategies to to answer to the needs of the aboriginal in s of housing
inquiry
the crisis in the sector agricultural
Report of a question of emergency public in under of the section 60 of the Rules
the SENATE
the Wednesday 3 November 99
the Senate is met to 13 p.m. 30 , the Speaker the to the Chair .
prayers .
the crisis agricultural current
the leave of adjourn pursuant to the section 60 of the Rules to of to a question high of interest public
the hon. Leonard J . Gustafson :
honourable senators , I rise the speak today today for ask the held of a debate of emergency on the crisis agricultural .
I believe understand that I must convince His Hon. and that my colleagues of the emergency of the situation .
I like say of into of at that the Committee Senate Standing of the agriculture and of the Forestry has coast for more of a year and half of the evidence of representatives of button of farmers , primarily those of the west of the Canada .
these representatives we have entretenus of the problems that they are now .
I believe that our Committee has came a those careful to their very , who were serious .
the first ministers of the Manitoba and of the Saskatchewan the are wonder someone little disappointed of the response that they have received to the over of the discussions that they have liberty recently with the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Finance .
he there has in the west of the Canada a deep sense of lately and of despair .
I not fixed not of figures today today because that be in has already many of in this chamber and that be in has of , spoke yesterday .
however , the tragedy human who the product now in the Western is very serious .
I have spoke yesterday to of the people who the roles of the services of assistance telephone .
they me have indicated that he there had already had eight suicides .
the last in date is , of a man , father of four children , who the is suicidé after have was forsaken by the wife to because of the difficult situation in which they the were .
honourable senators , we are all of the adults responsible .
this crisis is so serious that it served in question our ability of represent our regions and of assume our responsibilities to the country all around .
honourable senators , he there has several issues which I like you speak .
however , I believe that the aspect of the tragedy human is the more important .
we must start a call to this regard .
the time press .
he the is guarantee of a situation of emergency who require that we have of the measures as now .
the crisis economic current not an not simply the hailed agricultural .
it has also of the impact on the certified of machinerie , the manufacturers and the employment in the together .
each vendeur of machinerie is a small plant .
be there served to nine the tracteurs and of other fairest agricultural .
when the farmers not have not of money , these businesses are bankrupt and of the people lose their employment .
the government will their would of the insurance - unemployment .
he is essential of not not let this situation perdurer , of there be quickly and effectively .
I like speak of the impact of the crisis in the municipalities rural .
a approximately of municipalities rural have decided , by vote , of until the levy of the taxes local .
I have spoke to the chairman of the board City of the pay of Wellington , to the North of Weyburn , in Saskatchewan . It has said that this not is not because that the farmers not want not pay their taxes , but well that they not have not the money for the to .
the situation has of the impact on any the Saskatchewan in of many sectors .
honourable senators , I to speak of the impact of this situation on any our nation .
that not receive not simply the Saskatchewan , the Manitoba and some regions of the Alberta , but all the country .
of more , that not the product not simply to the Canada but in the world around , to because of the grants and the rest .
we know all the reasons .
in a section of newspaper , be said that after a behind of nine days , the chairman Clinton has signed a agreed agricultural who for a assistance of emergency to the farmers of 8,7 billion of $ .
in response to that , the chairman of the Committee of the agriculture has said :
I am happy that the chairman has signed this bill of bill important , even if I not understand not why he has as eighth .
honourable senators , this is a situation very serious who deserves a debate in this chamber .
of the Senators :
hear !
the Hon. the Speaker :
I wish to remind to the honourable senators that the Rules for of the interventions of 5 minutes by Senator and 15 minutes of debate to the total .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I rise in as that Leader Deputy of the government to the Senate .
given of that the decision is bogged to the discretion of His Hon. the Speaker , I will be very prudent in my about .
honourable senators , the Senator Gustafson we has fact on of the intention of raise the question .
we the have listened and we are all to fact prepared to let the Speaker the deal to this about pursuant to the Rules .
I not have not of observation particular to to .
I would out , however , that we are all well aware of this that the Senator Gustafson has said to about of the business of the Committee Senate of the agriculture .
we are happy of let to the Speaker the be of decide , pursuant to the Rules , the he the is of a question of interest public high .
the Senator Lynch - Lynch :
is - you in favour or not ?
the Senator Hays :
I not have not the claim of say to the Speaker what to because that I respect the Rules .
I believe that the Speaker must take a decision in service of this that he has heard .
the Senator Kinsella :
not have - you not of opinion ?
the Senator Lynch - Lynch :
there has he or not a crisis ?
the hon. Mira Spivak :
honourable senators , I not have not as of credibility that the Senator Gustafson to this about , but I am the daughter of a farmer of the region of the lakes of the Manitoba .
be here of the crisis agricultural since of the months .
for this time , the farmers have was acculés to the at of the Dickie because that their marges of profit the are resserrées .
the costs échappent to the control of the farmers .
the price are under by the markets international and they échappent also to their control .
the competition is impossible to because of the grants paid by the Union European and the States - United .
even if the farmers can be on the income of a or two jobs to the outside of the firm , they are loads debt and into the bankrupt .
they could losing their land , their heritage , their source of income and the way of life which they are profoundly attachment .
honourable senators , the tragedies personal not are not always the subject of emergency national , but I will list few reasons who follows why the crisis is high to the point of justify a debate of emergency .
of first , the week last , of the producers agricultural and the first ministers of the Manitoba and of the Saskatchewan are came to Ottawa for ask the assistance of the government federal .
they knew that he was government that the producers receive of other Payments of here December for avoid the bankrupt before the spring .
as we the know , the government has refused of injected of new are of money and the Banking will now forced of proceed to of the saisies .
second , the Program of assistance in case of disaster linked to the income agricultural , who was fill a deficiency in the programs existing of security of the income agricultural , is a disaster .
, the Manitoba , more of 55p. per of the farmers which the ask has was handled until to this not have received no assistance .
third , the impact of the crisis agricultural is shortfall not only by the hailed agricultural family , but also by almost all the world in community rural .
the people not can pay their bills .
they promise least of fairest agricultural .
the écoliers are their accommodation school of the year before .
almost all the world must the serrer the tightening , rogner on all and barriers .
fourth , the level of stress increase quickly in the farmers and their families and in the communities rural .
he enough of read the letters way by of the children to the Prime Minister for see to what point the parents are their stressés .
the issues have was clarifiés and the crisis has was implementation in light during of meetings that I have liberty here and to the Manitoba with of the delegations of farmers désespérés .
he we have was very grateful of the have heard here , to the Senate .
they are angry " and demoralized by of the forces who échappent completely to their control .
how can - we , to the Senate , look the situation the eroded more without to a attention appropriate to their concerns in the framework of a debate of emergency ?
the hon. Ron Ghitter :
honourable senators , I rise for encourage the Speaker to to the held of a debate of emergency on this about .
in as that citadin , I me sense many more to the comfortable the feet on the asphalte that on the land , but I is the importance of our world agricultural of the point of view of someone a who has was a representative elected in Alberta during eight years and of the point of view of a Senator who has met to and occasions of the people derogate of the world agricultural .
, the over of the years , I allowed in blaguant my friends farmers of " pleurnichards " , and of people who not are never murmur .
this is be the bad time , be the price of the Wheat , be the amount of the grants , or still the over of the dollar when they will in summer to the sun .
end August , the Senator Gustafson me has guest to a meeting to Ottawa with a group of farmers of the Saskatchewan and of the Alberta .
several of my colleagues were that also .
we have spoke of this that the farmers Cree .
this not were not of the people who parlaient senior and very and who cooperate to draw the attention .
when I the have regardés in the be , I have seen the afraid .
when I the have trusting , I could hear in their Senators of the trémolos trahissant the tears that they pin of clerical .
when I have thought to this that they had to say , I am became very " , not only for them , but also for the public agricultural of the Canada .
I have examined this that they had to say , and that this that the senators Spivak and Gustafson me had said .
then , when I have at the graphique who editing that the income agricultural net realized , expressed in $ terms of 1998 , was past of 8,700 million of $ that he was of 1993 to 1997 , to 400 million of $ in 1998 , to least 48 million of $ in 99 , I have including this which they parlaient .
we not we ourselves not before a situation where of the people come clamour a little more of assistance to the government .
this are of the people who are to the on of the gulf .
their survival is in are of the play .
be could the amuser with the figures for still long , but the fact is that the situation is high in the regions rural of the Canada .
in the Western , it is of more in more high ; the figures are effarants .
this is all a way of life who is attack in the west of the Canada , Honour Hon. .
from of the Manitoba , you know this that that to say .
the communities rural , the control of the resources agricultural , the cost of the food and the survival of thousands of Canadians are in at .
I note , by example , that the Senator Hays has should accept a new employment .
the income agricultural has so decreased that he has agreed the as of Leader Deputy to the Senate .
as be the has said , the Divestiture of the Western ...
the Hon. the Speaker :
I regret of duty interrupt the hon. Senator Ghitter , but the period of 15 minutes has expired .
however , he can continue the he getting the Authorized .
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Hon. the Speaker :
please continue .
the Senator Ghitter :
the week last , the Prime Minister shares and the Prime Minister Doer were to the head of a delegation , to Ottawa , for ask to the government federal a assistance of 1.3 billion of $ for the farmers .
the farmers of the Western , who believed that a assistance immediate would , fondaient of great hopes on the meetings .
however , their hopes have was disappointed .
the delegation is repartie the hands vides , except that be him has presented a new series of figures .
I think that the incident has has the emergency of the situation , to know that the farmers of the Western want solve the crisis the week last .
it not has not was résolue , and we , senators , must now the to of any emergency for come immediately in assistance to the farmers of the Western .
if we are more long , he will can - be too later .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I thank all the senators who have in to the debate for determine the he there has or not situation high .
as he has was has , the Speaker must manner .
I somatotropin the senators to the paragraph 60 ( 1 ) of the Rules , who states the conditions who must be up .
I quote :
60 . ( 1 ) has ) must have with to a emergency real and require the attention immediate of the Senate ;
b ) not must not cottage a discussion already should during the even session pursuant to the this section of the Rules ;
the limited has ) and b ) me allow of believe to the well - based of the proposal .
is this that said the ( who following :
this ( not the applies not to the proposal to the study .
the ( who following said this :
d ) not can raise of about who is essentially a question of privilege .
this ( not the applies not not more .
I somatotropin now the senators to the paragraph 60 ( 6 ) of the Rules , who the reads as following :
60 ( 6 ) has ) in what legislation it has with to the responsibilities administrative of the government or could met of the jurisdiction of the departments ;
this ( me allows of conclude to the well - based of the proposal .
that the ( who following :
60 ( 6 ) b ) why he is little likely that the Senate has a other opportunity of study the question in a deadline reasonable .
I regret that , in reason of the ( b ) , the proposal not be not based .
by , , I not have heard no notice from to the with of this point of view .
in borders this ( to the together of the conditions that I must approve , I wants that the leave should be granted .
the Senator Hays :
honourable senators , I like thank His Hon. for his decision , that we respect .
however , we not had not provided that .
he there has of the committees who members this after - afternoon .
I like ask to the honourable senators of well would accept that this debate not has not place to the time where the for the Rules , to know after the order of the day , but rather to 20 p.m. .
this is a day where we we generally a Senate relatively short to of to to our committees of vaquer to their business .
we respect the decision and are loans to debate this question , but we prefer that the debate has place to 20 p.m. .
the hon. ë A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , the House has recognized that a case of a great importance for the Canada the its to we .
this is a emergency .
be not cannot the postpone .
we will bouleverser the conduct as of our business for to a question who , of the notice of this side - this of the House , is a emergency national , a great crisis , a issue that we not cannot back to more later .
is why we not would not supportive to the postponement of this debate .
we want in debate to the end of the order of the day , before any other question .
honourable senators , I acknowledge that the question of ...
the Senator Hays :
honourable senators , I point the Rules .
the Leader Deputy of the Opposition votes a speech .
I have asked the leave , with ground to the support .
, my notice , a simple " not " enough if this leave is disposed .
the hon. John Lynch - Lynch ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , this is not .
you not have clearly not read the decision made yesterday by His Hon. the Speaker .
the Senator Kinsella :
honourable senators , the things not are not also simple that that .
a part of the intervention of the Leader Deputy of the government with the business of some committees .
I like answer to this point .
if this is am necessary that the Committee Senate Standing of the transport and of the Communications seat in even time that the Senate , we , of this side - this , would of agreed for the there Authorize .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , the leave of amend the Rules is disposed .
the Rules specific very clear that the debate of emergency will place after the exhaustion of the order of the day or , to the more later , to 20 p.m. this night .
honourable senators , I draw your attention on the paragraph 60 ( 4 ) of the Rules .
in under of this clause , he is clear that " the Speaker , to the place of from to the call of the " Déclarations of senators " , give the speak to the senators who have of of the notice ... "
in of other words , the debate of emergency the precedence on the " Déclarations of senators . "
the paragraph said " place of from to the call ... "
in under of this clause , he not there will not of statements of senators today today .
Affairs routine
transport and Communications
Authorized to the Committee of sit in even time that the Senate
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the paragraph 58 ( 1 ) has ) of the Rules move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the transport and of the Communications be authorized to sit to 15 p.m. 30 today today , the 3 November 99 , well that the Senate of the Senate can be in over , and that the application of the paragraph 95 ( 4 ) of the Rules be suspended to this regard .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the leave is - it granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
the Committee of selection
Presented of the fourth report
the hon. Léonce MLA :
honourable senators , I have the honour of to the fourth report of the Committee of selection to on the along of the senators who will members of the various committees special for the its session .
the Hon. the Speaker :
is - this of agreed , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when consideration - we this report ?
( on the motion of the Senator MLA , the study of the report is placed to the order of the day of the next Senate )
the Code criminal
bill of bill Amend - First Reading
the hon. Anne C . Cools :
honourable senators , I have the honour of to the bill of bill S - 9 , Act to to amend the Code criminal ( abuse of procedure ) .
( the bill of bill is read a first time . )
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when read - we the bill of bill a second time ?
( on the motion of the Senator Cools , the second Reading of the bill of bill is placed to the order of the day of the Senate of Wednesday next , the 10 November 99 . )
the Union Parliamentary
the four - ninety - 10 - eighteenth conference held to Oulan Batour , in Mongolie - Report of the report of the group Canadian
the hon. Sheila Finestone :
honourable senators , I have the privilege of table the report of the delegation Parliamentary to the on of a meeting of the Group Asia - Pacific of the Union Parliamentary who has had place to Oulan Batour , in Mongolie , of the 26 to the 31 July 99 .
the Act on the languages official
the services in French available to the francophones outside Quebec - Notice of inquiry
the hon. Jean - Maurice Simard :
honourable senators , I give notice that , the Tuesday 16 November 99 , I call the attention of the Senate on the situation who prevails currently opposite - to - opposite the development and the throughout of the communities francophones and acadiennes , of his deteriorating step , of the désengagement of the governments to the Canada to the over of the 10 past years and of the loss of accessibility of the services in French .
I lead of the opportunity for table my report entitled : " De the cutting to the accolade , a the of heart the fact expect " .
PERIOD PERIOD question
the Court Supreme
the appointment of the hon. Beverley McLachlin to the as of Justice in Leader
the hon. Marcel homme man :
honourable senators , as he not there has not had of period for to the statements of senators today today , I will for a question .
this is a question very better that I will for to the Leader Deputy of the government .
there will he a ceremony special for celebrate the event particular who just of have place ?
I to speak of a event historic in our country and in the world around - the appointment of her the Justice Beverley McLachlin to the as of Justice in Leader of the Court Supreme of the Canada .
the hon. Leader Deputy of the government to the Senate not appropriate - he not that a statement is of implementation for out a event also extraordinary ?
the Senate is the wharfinger of the tradition and he is all to fact indicated that he out the event .
I not to not enter a debate to this about , but of other senators have can - be few words to say on this event historic majeur .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I just all fair of learn the new and I in am delighted .
the question of the Senator could be make of various ways .
he ask that the senators can to of the comments on this event grand as today today , even now , then that normally , they the would to the over of the period for to the statements of senators .
I think power say to the behalf of my colleagues that he would indeed appropriate of comment now the announcement of this appointment .
following the precedent established by my counterpart , the Leader Deputy of the Opposition , I take of this that I am stand for express the great happy and the pride that I having in something that the hon. Beverley McLachlin remplacera the Justice in Leader Lamer of the Court Supreme of the Canada .
her the Justice McLachlin the is as as lawyer and as Justice .
we all who have had the privilege of be the right are very proud of it .
my colleagues and I accept that of other senators taking few times for comment this event grand .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , be ask the leave of hear now of the comments on the about raised by the hon. Senator homme man .
the leave is - it granted ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the hon. John Lynch - Lynch ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
not .
the hon. J . Michael Forrestall :
could - be we say what will the impact on the period of the questions ?
the Hon. the Speaker :
the Senator Forrestall :
I not wanted not refuse the consent .
I was simply puzzling of know the impact that the proposal would on the office scheduled of the period of the questions .
the Defence national
the restructuring of the units of contingency of the Canada Atlantic - - 1 Canadian of Surplus of campaign of the Artillerie Royal Canadian
the hon. J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , I have a question to for to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
that back to a discussion that I have had with the predecessor to the about of the restructuring of the units of contingency to the Canada .
some units are Answers as the classes , and of other as the not classes .
without too impediment the things , he not there has not of doubt in my spirit that I have was seriously misled in mistake .
I have chosen of add faith to that because that three or four people different were in are of answer to the ask of information .
that with the 1 regiment of campaign of the Artillerie Royal Canadian , which the Headquarters General the is to Halifax .
this is a unity that the Minister knows very well and which he is without doubt enough proud in as that Nova - Nova .
be has recognized to this unity a level of being in activity of 93,1p. per and a rate of efficiency of 88,5p. per .
be that to the least 15 units of contingency to the Canada who are qualifiées of not classes .
however , no of between they not has a matter similar .
that has brought any a brouille between the apparatus of the contingency to the Canada and the government present , for of the reasons as those - this , I i .
I believe that this unity deserves of the apologize .
I think that the human any plants for to these apologize is none other that the Minister responsible of the Nova - Nova .
I not ask not of the negotiations extensive to this regard , but of simple apologize for the mistake , little any how it has was commise .
the Minister can - he ask a reassessment of the rating granted to this unity historic of the Nova - Nova to the over of the process of reassessment ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , to my knowledge , the government has always seconded the role important that plays the contingency in all the country .
I know that , in my region , we will from a given for two biographies facilities to Sydney , in Nova - Nova , who a to the contingency .
I believe know that these facilities improve far the operating of the contingency in the region .
the unity to which the hon. Senator fact referring , the 1 regiment of campaign of the Artillerie Royal Canadian , is a unity remarkable which all the Nova - Nova can be proud .
I him ask of to evidence of a little of patience , the time that I me seek with of the Minister to this about .
I hope power provide to the Senator Forrestall a response specific to his question .
the Senator Forrestall :
honourable senators , far of I the idea of speak to the behalf of the regiment .
of a other side , the Lieutenant - Colonel Doyle has left hear , in the comments that he has facts he there has few months , that to the notice , the least that can to the CFT for was the situation would of the apologize .
this unity is viable and should be rétablie .
this is can - be the a of the units the more classes to the Canada .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I thank the Senator for this information .
I rise very to the seriously the statements of service of the regiment which he fact referring .
I date of have of more forth details on this question and of provide to the Senator a response satisfactorily .
the Senate
the efforts to to increase the representation of the minorities visible
the hon. Donald H . Oliver :
honourable senators , my question the is to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
the week last , I have attended to a conference who had place to Ottawa .
I have found during of this event that the government of the Canada had failed abysmally for this who is of open the service public to the minorities visible .
that the last report on the equity in the employment , only 9 200 of the 190 . officials federal the say them - same members of minorities visible .
that represents about 5 per , be least of the half of the 11 per that the minorities visible are to the within of the public Canadian .
, the Senate , that the past statistics that I have could obtain , 1,2p. per of the employees are members of minorities visible .
the House of second reflection is seriously of the back and not has not known where a standard being to the representation of the minorities visible to the within of all the businesses and of the agencies of the government of the Canada .
the Leader of the government to the Senate we will he what plans strategic are in over of development , the he there in has , for improve the representation of the minorities visible to the Senate of the Canada ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , the question in is a who concern all the government , and not only the Senate .
in fact , of the efforts are been since a sure time already for to in so that the percentage of positions busy by of the members of the minorities visible to the government reflects the percentage that these minorities are to the within of the public active .
the objectives not have not still was suffering .
however , he there has of the warning by .
of the statistics recent that I not have not in with indicate that the members of the minorities visible seem obtain of the promotions in of the risen correspondent to their percentage to the within of the service public .
this is well , but the situation not is not fully satisfactorily .
the figures seem when even would a improvement .
course , we seek always to to our objective , who is a representation to the within of the service public and of the Senate who reflects the percentage that are the minorities visible in the public in General .
the development of the resources human
the efforts to to increase the representation of the minorities visible
the hon. Donald H . Oliver :
honourable senators , the Leader of the government to the Senate could - he would these concerns to the cabinet and awareness his colleagues to the important problem of the representation inadéquate of the minorities visible to the at senior of the service public ?
when the Minister will the statistics that he has mentioned , he could can - be take a list and bring to the Senate the number of under - ministers and of under - ministers assistants who are members of minorities visible in the service public Canadian , and provide of the statistics for the Senate him - even ?
the commitment he to to that ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I will certainly to to the Senate and give to all those that that interest the report that I have mentioned .
I not the have not under the with in the time .
however , I have thought that this report could interest the Senator because that he as not only the percentage of minorities visible , but also how these minorities visible seem current in the entirely .
I me commitment to provide these information to the Senator .
for this who is of the Senate , the question could interest to fair as the Committee Standing of the Economy Economy , of the Budgets and of the Administration .
the Senator Oliver :
honourable senators , I not have never in to the business of this Committee .
I hope that , in the year of his duties , the Leader of the government to the Senate will to evidence of initiative and that he we seek these questions .
the Minister by that the situation the improving .
I him ask of produce the list of the under - ministers and under - ministers assistants by part of the minorities visible for the good reason that I know know that they are if little many that the Minister in will gêné .
the improvements which he fact referring have was observed to the at lower of the service public , this who is bashful .
the Nations overseeing
the disarmament nuclear - Position policy of the government opposite to the resolution of the New Agenda Coalition
the hon. Douglas Roche :
honourable senators , the Leader of the government to the Senate can - he would if the Canada votera indeed in favour of the resolution of the New Agenda Coalition , now to the study to the Nations overseeing , who chamber of about without more delay the negotiations before all to the implementation in place of a program of disarmament nuclear ?
I have already asked the question yesterday to the Minister .
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I thank our the hon. Senator of have - his question today today .
he not me has not still was of of in speak with the Minister of the Affairs foreign and of the Trade international .
the Canada has often and liberalized seconded the program of disarmament nuclear , that he the whether of followed of order General or enable as the treatment of the Contents dangerous left after the disarmament nuclear .
for this who is of the question raised , I not like not answer to the place of the Minister responsible and I am sure of power rapporter his response very quickly to the hon. Senator .
the Senator Roche :
I thank the Minister of this response .
I ask to the Leader of the government to the Senate of the would of any emergency because that the vote to the Nations overseeing the will to the beginning of the week next .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I acknowledge the jurisdiction of the hon. Senator in the s and the role over that he has played in the questions of disarmament .
I be delighted of receive these documents and I him mud of speak to the Minister before the end of the week .
the Affairs foreign
the new ambassador with of the Organization World of the trade - Position possible of a contract of consultation with the employer of the former ambassador - Request of Tabled of documents
the hon. James F . Kelleher :
Mr. . Marchi has replaced a official very respected to more of 20 years of experience in s of trade international , Mr. John Weekes .
you you rappellerez can - be that , the week last , Mr. Weekes has was elected to the as prestigious of chairman of the Council General of the WTO , who includes more of 130 members .
that a section of the National Financial in date of the 12 October 99 , Mr. Weekes has " his first interview since that he has was évincé of the as of ambassador of the Canada with of the WTO and has said that he was now chairman responsible of the practices trade global for APCO , who is a s American of expert - advice .
the section which also Mr. Weekes continues of be a ' Main with of the government Canadian .
the Senator Kinsella :
this is a good question .
yes or not ?
the Senator Kelleher :
a simple response will the case .
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
thank , hon. Senator .
I to well answer also briefly and also directly that possible , but a response by yes or by not not sufficient can - be not .
I not know not the former Incumbent of the as .
he must clearly be a man very distinguished for have could the find also quickly a as also important in the sector private .
I know the Incumbent present , who affiche a to very distinguished not only on the scene public , to the government , but also in the sector of the trade .
the Senator Lynch - Lynch :
the matter of the MMT was the fun , not is - this not ?
the Senator Boudreau :
his history must generally be well which .
the experience that he has take in the sector of the trade and to the government are of him exactly the type of candidate who is to this such of as .
the Senator Lynch - Lynch :
he has voted against the free - Exchange , you in from - you ?
the Senator Boudreau :
I am course that no of between we not wish that be écartés of the candidates simply because that they have took on to the life public , as we the do now .
I for the government of the appointment of the Incumbent present .
for this who is of the markets conclude with of the driven , I am sure that the government of the Canada has regularly use to the services of driven for various business .
the Senator Lynch - Lynch :
of the people that he congédie ?
the Senator Boudreau :
the human in because is - it to the number of the driven , I not cannot the confirm .
if it is used to this as , I am sure that the government receives of good services in States of the remuneration about .
the Senator Kelleher :
honourable senators , I then ensure to the Leader of the government to the Senate Mr. John Weekes is very appropriate .
, the end of the months , the Canada and 130 other country the be to Miami for start the next series of negotiations of the WTO .
as these negotiations could have of major impact on the Canada , he is important that the Canadians have fully confidence in the management of these negotiations to Geneva .
, the behalf of the transparency and for concerning any uncertainty to the about of the market of APCO before the meeting of the WTO to Miami , the Leader of the government soon he the contract and the documents other , there including those who with the call of will and the licensing of the market ?
the Senator Boudreau :
he is responsible of the matter and I not pretend not him those this responsibility .
I will him would the ask of the Senator , who to obtain of more forth details on this contract .
the Finance
the dévaluation of the dollar - - influence on the Purchase of companies Canadian by of the interests foreign
the hon. Gerry Germain :
he there has had a from on to the sales of MacMillan Bloedel , company Canadian established of long date , to Weyerhaeuser , great conglomérat American who has has of this that a great number of between we our be a way situation of the on of the government of manage our system tax and Monetary in leaving the dollar Canadian be also dévalué that he the is to the hour current .
this morning , I have fact the trajet since Toronto with a young man who has always was a Liberal , but who is all to fact disgusted of see all these businesses be achetées by of the Americans and of other , virtually to half price .
the Minister has he of the comments to forward relatively to the fact that these major companies Canadian the are offset by of the businesses foreign ?
I not say not that he must return to the terrible Agency of review of the Investment abroad implementation on at by the government Liberal Mr. Trudeau , but I think that he there has a problem when be loses of major companies as MacMillan Bloedel .
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , the comments of the hon. Senator me interested cleansing .
of any obviously , the value of our vowels creates a dynamic economic who can standard various consequences or various events , that the circumstances .
I am surprised of learn that , in General , the representatives of the sector of the resources natural the opposed to the pleasant of the dollar Canadian .
I would believed that , in well of the case , that their offrirait a advantage extraordinary when just the time of sell their products across in the world .
I not am not an of the industry of the lumber of sciage , but I know that , in of many branches of the sector of the resources natural , the pleasant of the dollar Canadian has offered of great benefits to our producers , this who has even contributed to create of the jobs and to stimulate the activity economic .
the pleasant of the dollar Canadian has therefore had , of the least to some ways , of the impact positive on the sector of the resources natural .
this that he must clerical , by against , this is that the pleasant of the dollar makes the acquisition of companies Canadian very most to those who hold of the $ American and who liquidity of such iceberg more interesting that other .
he not must particularly not forget that our vowels is flottante and that it is it - even the own level .
this will of , always the case , to least that we not be loans to its in full the policy of the Bank of the Canada .
in this who with the iceberg by of the interests foreign , he there can - be of other solutions that the Agency of review of the Investment abroad .
the hon. Senator in has can - be even some to we propose .
the senator Germain :
honourable senators , the Leader about of the pleasant of the dollar Canadian and of the sector resource .
this is really a false economy because , in some case , that we has led to become least competitive .
that has led to these were quota fallacious on the lumber of implement , who have set a real nightmare .
that has CRTC the development of any industry in a province , because without Authority , be not can open a scierie .
that system a series of problems to this about .
this is really horrific .
honourable senators , I believe that , in the framework of solutions to short term , the government has as the rate of interest to a level too there and this is this who has led to the dévaluation of this dollar flottant .
in as that special , our only by report to the rest of the world has was reduced .
, the airport Heathrow , he in costs 15 books for a small - at , this who represents , except mistake , 45 $ Canadian about .
that mine completely our ability of remain competitive are on the market world .
the Senator Taylor :
this Mr. Mulroney who has began all that .
the senator Germain :
listen , you have had your opportunity .
you would you wiser of the GST and of all these other measures and you not in have nothing fact , Mr. .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I the say with , I not am not of agreed with my hon. colleague on a sure number of points .
the senator Germain :
I hope that this is the case .
the Senator Boudreau :
some of these difference touch even the vowels .
for my on , I not am not in favour of that .
when be is against a rate of change fixed and the - artificial of the dollar Canadian to a level more high by report to the dollar American , he must then create of the conditions who will have the Among of the value of our dollar .
I like that the hon. Senator far that I am favourable to a rate of change flottant .
I is that this is a good way of correct the situation for the two major economies , the States - United and the Canada , who can and the us the a to the other .
I rest in favour of a rate of change flottant and , must - I add , I not so not to me decide to prôner a increase of the rate of interest .
I not can not be of agreed with the hon. Senator , who is of notice that this is good for the country of abolish the rate of interest .
I not can all simply not the admit .
well of the people of the industry of the resources natural with which I me am talked have was party of a dollar Canadian low .
however , with a rate of change flottant , the dollar Canadian finit by find the level who is the fun .
, least that we not be loans to adopt a sure number of measures severe , a rate of change with or a increase of the rate of interest by example , the dollar Canadian continue of find the own level .
I not be not prepared to me deal in favour of rate of interest notablement more high .
I not know not if the senators of in opposite there are supportive , but I not believe not that our party there be favourable .
answers delayed to of the questions Oral
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I have the response Senate to a question that the hon. Senator Lowell Murray has raised the 13 October 99 to the Senate to the about of the responsibility of the with of the sites of PCB toxiqueS , in Nova - Nova and that a response to a question that the hon. Senator Donald Oliver has raised to the Senate the 13 October 99 to the about of the funding of the prospect of the damage occur by the floods in the coincidental of Cumberland .
the environment
the Nova - Nova - Position responsibility of the with of the sites of PCB toxins
( response to the question raised by the hon. Lowell Murray the 13 October 99 )
the privatization next of the Corporation of development of the Cape - Cape ( SDCB ) has raised of the concern regarding the preventative of the property héritées or learning by the Corporation since his creation in 1967 .
as indicated in the é of the Senate of the 13 October last , the responsibility and the business from to the Municipality of the sites miniers current and abandoned of the SDCB describes to this last .
of , , in the report annual ( to the period who the end the 31 March 99 ) , the SDCB has fact his better estimate of the cost provided of the questions Environmental ( démolition of vessels , prospect , business of terrassement , treatment of the waters and other business of preventative ) .
of after the better estimate of the leadership of the cost for the with to the requirements of the laws and regulations relevant , and a assessment provided by the favours of engineers - advice Senes , the cost provided of one of the damage occur to the environment the 4,400 to 110 million of $ .
environment Canada provide of the advice technical and scientific to the SDCB on the questions revitalizing and future related to the activities of Municipality of this last , the objective the of ensure to this that these activities are to the requirements of the laws and regulations on the protection of the environment .
the Defence national
the Nova - Nova - Position responsibility of the prospect of the damage occur by the floods in the coincidental of Cumberland
( response to the question raised by the Donald H . Oliver the 13 October 99 )
the government of the Nova - Nova is in are of assessment the damage to the infrastructure public occur by the storm .
the authorities provincial are conscientes of the Availability of the support financial federal , in under of the Accords of assistance financial in case of disaster ( Accords AFC ) , and they are the criteria of Eligibility .
the business of the Senate
the hon. ë A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I believe that we have need of Criminals for know who are the senators are , in under of the Rules , we can for of the questions for the period of the questions .
I have the Appendix that the questions can be way to the chairmen of the various committees and to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
I believe well that the first question who has was raised today today the mass to the Leader Deputy of the government to the Senate .
if I had known that this was consistent to the Rules , the Senator Carstairs and I - even have had many more of trade that we not in have Government to the over of the last session .
he would useful that be we specific if the Leader Deputy of the government is the a of the senators to who of the questions can be way for the period of the questions .
the Hon. the Speaker :
in the absence of the Leader of the government to the Senate , the Leader Deputy has the as of answer to the questions in the legislation where he the can .
however , when the Leader of the government is this , the questions must him be way .
order DAY THE
the speech of the Throne
motion of Adopted of the is in response - Continued of the debate
the order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Jeffrey , seconded by the hon. Senator Furey , Honourable to the Adopted of a Adresse to His Excellency the Gouverneure general in response to the speech that her has by during of the openness of the second session of the 30 - sixth Parliament . - (
the hon. Marie - P .
he there has well long that be we had presented a speech also éclatant of optimism relatively to the possible of capitaliser on the enormous potential of our country full of richesses .
with the end of the millennium are apparus of the opposed , of the adherents of cultes and of the prophètes of they with their chapelet of Eisenhower and of exhortations déprimantes regarding the end of the century .
they not are not the negative opposite to the effervescence and to the effect that appreciates those and those who support the government .
we are brought by the accomplishments of the Canada to the over of the 20 century and we issue with confidence and exaltation the challenges that this the next century and the new millennium .
honourable senators , the speech of the Throne has of the their to the way which we will initiate the new era .
we not issue not the future the be find and we not are not exhibiting in the past .
we recognize that some mistakes have was took , but they have was completely éclipsées by our accomplishments .
we have was of the lessons of our mistakes and we will of new by .
but we can influence the evolution by the effort , by the conviction , by the determination , by our courage , by our work , by our Innovation , by our creativity , by our motivator and particularly in by the benchmarks for at in partnership with of other governments , in partnership with the sector private and particularly in as the example .
honourable senators , we can to of the by inimaginables in the field of the Arts and of the Science , of the research and of the development , of the progress social , of the promotion of the growth personal and particularly of the promotion of the peace and the good will to the country .
the Canada , my friends , is the better place where live .
through to a good planning of the on of the government present and to the with of all the Canadians , we have succeeded to reliance the scourge of the debt .
he not the is not of a vision include and éphémère ; it the support on of the values concrete and practices .
honourable senators , the speech of the Throne and the remarks who have was made by the on by the Prime Minister have for of establish a framework of action realistic .
the process is already in over and we comptons well build this vision - by - , a morceau to the time .
honourable senators , my great - father was menuisier in the North of the Ontario , to Sudbury .
we have learned as child and small - child that for grow , he must that our home be bâtie on a foundation strong , Motor , his .
this is this that our government we has offered since six years and this is this that our government will continue to to , because we have well including the speech of the Throne .
honourable senators , all that based on the return of the health tax , the Elimination of the deficit paralysant and a attack direct of the debt Area .
our economy is in full growth .
the rate unemployment is low , the inflation also , the exports are , the taxes are to cut and the salaries are .
this is a - very important , the - cornerstone of the commitment of the government present opposite to the institution of a Canada very where could coexister the desirability and the compassion , where the confidence in itself and the dignity human not would not sacrifiées on the sacrificed of the only and of the ambition .
the strategy to to to possible this vision starts to fair as with our children .
I will list the measures that the government has already with in implement : the Program of nutrition prénatale ; the Program of assistance préscolaire to the aboriginal ; the Subvention Canadian for the savings - studies ; of the rendering paramount for costs of Access of children ; the Prestation national for children to the intention of the families to low and to way income ; and the not - tax of the determined for the support of a child .
be announcement in addition of the congés of initiating and parentaux more extensive , of the agreements federal - provincial on a support increased for the development of the children in there age , of the Personal tax who comma more of money between the hands of the families , of the conditions of work who held that of the needs of the families , the reform of the right of the family , a Investment important in the Prestation national for children and of best opportunities of learning through to the expansion of the program Rescol .
honourable senators , I am pleased of see that the enthusiasm and the skills technological of the young Canadians will used to of the for useful who their will of the serve of their talents and of who a experience to the level national and international .
I me bornerai to appoint four initiatives to this regard : first , Échanges Canada , who provide double to a million of young Canadians the opportunity of study in a other region of the country ; second , the she of tens of thousands of young volunteers Canadian in of the bills community and of the bills environmental national , and also to of help of other people to improve their capabilities of Reading and of gifted ; third , the possible for the young Canadians of to to profit their energy and their talents to the abroad , in the framework of programs of Pages international , including in by of the country in development to the plug on the Internet ; and fourth , the she of young Canadians for help the communities rural and urban to to on at of the sites Internet for the public .
in the purpose of support the sector of the education , the government has announced and to already ' in place the Foundation Canadian of the scholarships of the millennium , which the per . first $ will made in January ; the Subvention Canadian for the savings - studies , the deduction of the interests doctoral on the loans students , and the use of the RRSPs to the for of training .
of any obviously , the realizing of our vision is well divestiture .
it includes of the commitments to our environment , the promotion of the trade commercial , the investment , the research and the development , the entrepreneuriat and the partnerships .
this is the leadership who raises the enthusiasm and the optimism , who we because to act , who we fact current , who we stimulates and who we encourage to we adapt to of the ideas and of the technologies new .
honourable senators , I have spoke of the - cornerstone of the vision , our children and our young .
I have spoke of our responsibilities financial , of the obligation of protect the environment , and that of the need of preserve the programs social .
all that is attack if we not générons not a climate favourable to the community of the Affairs and in which the businesses , small and major , can vibrant .
without investment , without entrepreneurs , without the knowledge necessary in a economy new on the know , we there of losing the Position millions which we happen in the world .
we have many to losing : a community of communities cultural have , prosperous , compatissantes and attentionnées who the over of a coast to the other .
this is the reason for which I am summer that the speech of the Throne , that the Prime Minister has more later an and étoffé , has also were on the trade and on the Investment .
I have took happy to hear that , for keep and draw the best and the more brilliant of our fellow , we must to evidence of a spirit of imagination novateur .
the cooperation between the governments , the universities , the institutions of research and the sector private is essential if we want remain to the before - Access of the competition World .
he is therefore appropriate that the government the move of increase the support to the research by the through of our various agencies granting which the Council of research medical , the Council of research in Science human and the Council of research in Science natural and in engineering .
the proposal of create in all the Canada 2 . new chaires of excellence in research is a initiative before - gardiste , all as of , the bill of create the Institute Canadian of research in health .
in the response of the Prime Minister to the speech of the Throne , he there has a a who nutshell very well the efforts of the government for promote the research .
he worth the only of be repeatedly :
honourable senators , in what a strategy who intègre the economy , the policy social and the environment , the government recognizes also that , also well we that be his direction and his programs , they not can be effective without the sector private .
this is the sector private who is the drives of the economy .
the government can to the tools , but this are the making of the businesses who are operate the equipment and who produced the property and services who must be sold here and to the abroad .
we have all heard speak of the claimed drain of the drain .
in what his vision of the future , the government has met the conditions winners for keep and draw the best researchers , the best commensurate , the best producers and the best commercialistes to the world .
as they come of all the regions of the chorus , who of other could better we help to to competition to the country foreign ?
as I have chaired a under - Committee who has presented his findings to the Senate in June , I am outset that the Canada is in legislation of support the competition in the sectors in evolution of the ordinatique .
this objective , that the Prime Minister has guest the sector private to to , represents a issue of 200 billion of $ for the businesses .
we have a vision of the Canada .
this vision is the of a society modern , who the is bâtie through to the sharing of experiences and of values , of a society who is outcome of a determination to triumph against the plagued , to for the excellence , of a society who fact the envy of the other .
honourable senators , is this that is the Canada , our Canada , , of today today and of tomorrow .
the hon. Erminie J . Cohen :
honourable senators , the speech of the Throne 1977 the program of the government for the new millennium and we did a plan and a list of priorities who fell that the children will to the before - scene in the Budgets to come .
we will , between other , a together of programs reasonable for the children , a increase of the Estimates and of the benefits accorded to the families poor and to their children , a break of initiating paid , of the housing for the without - from and a Program of action national for the children .
is of the reasons valid and sensées for the government of Services of the Estimates for that he activated a surplus .
in fact , this are of the objectives laudable .
however , what is the date target ?
what programs are Softwood for to end to the poverty of the children and when will - we in place a strategy national ?
well that the Canadians to including the need of increase the Estimates to the as of the programs social have appreciate the speech of the Throne , they have however was disappointed that the government has out of propose a plan of action for help the more those .
that comptons - we to for relieve the difficulties of the Canadians who have was private of their rights ?
the fight against the poverty to the Canada on by the perseverance , the determination , the commitment , the compassion and the actions concrete .
hélas , the 12 October last , the government not we has served that a list of priorities .
he must that the Canadians and the may of tomorrow can say , in considering the this Parliament , that he the counsellors of men and of women profoundly to build a Canada more very and a better quality of life for their children and their grandchildren - children .
in my quality of Chairman of the group of work of the Party Progressive - Conservative on the poverty , I me am entretenue with many of individuals and of advocates of the poor of a across to the other of the country .
their testimony dénonce the burden enormous of the poverty , also well for the individuals that for the society .
many of people have indicated that the programs of fight against the poverty not will not that improve the situation of the earner - small of today today , but they strengthen also the prospects socioéconomiques future of the Canada .
this are that two elements inseparable , honourable senators .
a good policy economic system inevitably a good policy social .
the a not will not without the other .
he not is not vital of remind to the senators that the poverty to the Canada has reached of the risen surviving .
not we about be not without tirelessly of the million of grandchildren Canadians who live under the below of the poverty ?
the Winter the soon to our doors , the families are of more in more many to duty the atteler to the painful task of seek a housing .
the speech of the Throne not has spent that a half - line to the without - from .
by much , the 26 October , the daily Ottawa Citizen has released a section inspired on Catherine Luxton , a fillette employees years who has took conscience of the new magnitude of the problem of the itinérance .
it has decided , with the assistance of the father , of to someone something for help the nécessiteux .
the Luxton the are set a objective .
he will was of the funds for buy 50 . meals chauds to distribute to the without - from of the region of Ottawa .
as he is comforting of see a young daughter recognize a need hand in our society and decide of to someone something immediately for be to the situation .
why the government at - he if long before of in to as ?
of the thousands of Canadians live in the parks , under the bridges , in the streets .
this are the citizens overlooked of our society .
the problem of the without - from is a problem real and serious which too of Canadians are face today today ; this is a problem which I hoping that the government with at in the speech of the Throne .
mother Teresa we has ' in Access when it has said :
we will considered , you and I , in service of this that we do for the poor .
now that the budget is excédentaire , I hope that the government in contained for the deal seriously to the problem hand and pressing of the poverty to the Canada before that come for him the hour of the judgment last .
the vision being in the speech of the Throne has statement the direction that the government will take in the year who just .
I for the government of have had the prévoyance of recognize that a Investment in the first years of our children is a Investment in the future of our country .
however , for rompre the graduate of the poverty , he must give to all the children to the Canada a opportunity equal of throughout all their potential .
he is sad of see that they not in have not the possible today today .
if we could be with success to the conditions Social who perpétuent the poverty é , honourable senators , we could rise a new generation of children - of the children which the needs essential are comblés for that they can become of the members of the society Canadian in good health , self and educated .
the Prime Minister has said :
we must from also quickly that possible of the words to the actions .
these words not want nothing say , that given of the fact that in 1989 , a resolution to to eliminate the poverty in the children before the year 2000 has was agreed by all the parties to the other place .
honourable senators , 10 years have past and he is yet bashful of see that the government has fact well little for esteem the grandchildren Canadians , which a on five has the much rhetoric .
, legislation that the poverty the répand to the Canada , this promise in the air of the government it least of hope .
the government has promised of new investment in the Prestation national for children , but since he there has a surplus today today , why is - he to tomorrow for take of the measures ?
when he has met the poor across to the Canada , the group of work on the poverty of the caucus national of the Party Progressive - Conservative has often and clear heard say that the time is come for the government federal of réindexer the Prestation national for children to the rate of inflation .
, the over of the last session , the member Progressive - Conservative of Shefford , to the Quebec , has presented a motion of the even such to the other place .
the government Liberal has revealed that he entendait spend a billion of $ for expand the break of initiating and the to of six months to a year .
I me am of this initiative and of the prévoyance that has the government in grateful that he is important that the parents just of the time with their children during the first years of training .
however , when be there taking to two time , be the ask who to the fair will of this grant .
that given of the changes s on the market of the work , he there has many of workers contractual and self .
however , these people not are not part of the regime of insurance - employment .
of more , this legislation not fact nothing for help those who are excluded of the market of the work up .
it not does not to the needs of the women to low income who not will not benefit of a break of initiating if their earnings not earner not of money .
that in is - he of the Leader of a family monoparentale who not can be that on him - even or it - even ?
I believe power say that this not is not the question of the break of initiating who concern the unemployed Canadian , but well the who is to find the means of to of the economical on the table .
the Nations overseeing have said that the Canada was the better country to the world for live .
yet , 5.2 million of Canadians live under the below of the poverty .
the 12 October last , the Canadians had need that be their revealing a plan what of the solutions concrete to of eliminate the poverty , the number of the without - from and the need of have of the Banking of food .
unfortunately , they have heard of waves promises who would conducted in a deadline approximatif .
, the enter of the 21 century , I implore the government of adopt a Position courageuse and audacieuse , of to a effort concerté and of the Services to abolish the level of life to of to of the vision being in the speech of the Throne a reality for the those .
I the implore of reduce the gap between the rich and the poor , of majorer the Benefit tax for child , of abolish the below of assujettissement to the tax , of réindexer the tax on the income of the special for protect the gains of the inflation and of improve the program of insurance - employment for that all those who in have need receive of the benefits , this who reduce the insécurité financial of the Canadians to the taken with the new market of the work .
the government has for duty of ensure a level of life décent to all his citizens .
Tagore , a similarly indien , has wrote :
I have Fee and I have rêvé that the life was wear , I me am weary and I have seen that the life was duty , I have acted and I have found that the duty was wear , I wish to the government of know the wear !
the hon. Gerald J . Comeau :
honourable senators , to the about of the decision any recent of the Court Supreme of the Canada , the 17 September 99 , five judges of the Court Supreme of the Canada , in call of the Court of call of Nova - Nova , have said that in under of rights derogate of treaties who have was signésle 10 March 1760 , Donald Marshall not was not given of the with to the regulatory on the fisheries .
I like draw your attention on of the considerations and a context historic who not have not was took in consideration by the Court Supreme and who indicate that the treaty of 1760 not is not valid .
in make , the court should to on his decision .
let - I of quote a which mémorable of this judgment .
he not cannot ask least of the honour and of the dignity of the Crown in his reports with the First Nations .
pareils feelings collecting a héroïsme chevaleresque , of the he of basic officers and of generous officials .
the judges could can - be ask that a one in memory of the Governor Lawrence , signatory of the document of 1760 , be secured on the pelouses before the Court Supreme for that they not forgotten never the negative of their decision .
however , five years to only before of sign this document now weakened , the Governor Acting Lawrence signed , the 11 August 1755 , a other document as of the instructions to the Colonel John Winslow .
for occurrences and arrangement the people , you someday have use to the means the more are and , that the circumstances , you serve of the ruse or of the force .
I to particularly that you teniez no that of the supplications and of the Petitions that you adresseront the people , what that be those who wish stay .
a be ignoble , gorgé of the authority military , who , diagrams and of his own initiative and without the leave of his senior , has of the order of stop , of have and of déporter 15 . men , women and children , which the half has canoe during the déportation .
this is the even man who has signed the treaty of 1760 .
réfléchissons a little to the magnitude of the fault .
the order transgressait openly the section 29 of the Britain Charter of England .
he enfreignait the Pétition of rights of 1628 .
absolutely nothing not allows of believe that the people acadiennes remettaient in question the regime British .
in assuming that some Acadians have made of the barristers political , he not there no bill British or other Motion the punish of their women and of their children .
nothing , if this not is a order of the Parliament , not could as a about British of the country , even the he the was of a criminal .
the treaty of Utrecht of 1713 , and the ascertain of the Queen Anne du23 June 1713 , have expanded the protection cheap by the treaty .
they stipulent that the Acadians have of the rights on their Lands and that they not can be expelled to least of a sentence made by a court .
that a member of the executive , who was a simple Lieutenant - Governor , has répudié a prerogative Royal contrevenait to the right British basic of the time .
in 1729 , the Governor Richard Phillips had assured the Acadians by wrote of his protection against such actions .
the Colonel Lawrence has acted without receive of levels and has méprisé all the laws who protected the Acadians .
even the king not had not the power of sign a order of déportation , because the provisions of 1297 of the Britain Charter of England stipulent that the king not is not over - with of the bill , therefore still least a simple Lieutenant - Governor Acting .
this colourful has fact confisquer the property of the Acadians , brûler their houses and their ways , abattre their animals .
he has violating of the families that he has they on of the ships fragiles for be in as esclaves or condamnées to the servitude in the colonies U.S. .
memories that this déportation criminal and these camps of does were entamés when the treaty of 1760 has was signed and extensions until in 1763 .
the burgeoning judges we themselves that they présument that Lawrence has acted honorablement in preparing this treaty of 1760 .
is the at of a bureaucrate powerful which the duty professional was of protect the Acadians .
of the at who shows that he not had no respect or for the treaties or for the day British .
of the decisions as those - that have always was fallacious , that this be in time of peace or of War .
Lawrence has asked of the actions deplores and fallacious , even to the aune of the moral of the devastation century .
of the actions as those - that were inadmissibles in the past and they the are all as today today .
a criminal not should not have the right of create of the laws fundamental in a society civilisée .
the with reprehensible the has private of all right legal and moral of sign not any what document which be the réfère today today for guide our civilization modern .
in benchmark our laws on a as to Lawrence , be the moque of the memory of our basic Canadians and may , of our martyrs who have fought and paid their blood for that same the behaviours murderers of people as Lawrence .
they have paid their blood for that of the tyrans of this kind not mild not on we and not do not the bill to the forefront of their fusil .
and is that to the enter of the new millennium , we will immortaliser officially the heritage of Lawrence in the kit of the court Supreme of the country .
what code of the memory of our martyrs and of our from visited , the first Europeans to the establish to the Canada !
we let a terrible heritage to the generations montantes .
some people will that I in to to the day British .
they the trompent , I in to to the at of a psychotique brings , of a bureaucrate écoeurant .
I think that the most of the Acadians think as I and that this patient developmentally to lier was of the own Leader .
we know all that Lawrence not is not the Prime bureaucrate of the history to exorbitant of the authority and to approach to of the actions of through , of violence and of terrorism .
unfortunately , he not will not the last not more .
I urge the judges to reflect to the obvious of their reaching .
if the be accept the would of the document of 1760 , be i that he has exécuté his duties general and ordinary with the Authorized of the day and of the people British .
he the obviously that he had of the reasons of déporter the Acadians and that he has faithfully obéi to the volontés of the day .
in grateful the power legal of Lawrence of sign of the documents legal to the behalf of the day , the Court Supreme recognizes the would of the order of déportation .
for of the centuries , the day has balayé this illégalité under the been .
this is can - be for that that the order of déportation not has never was from and that all the world can in take knowledge .
this is can - be for that that the Acadians have was clear excluded of the treaty of Paris of 1763 , and that this bannissement illegality is always in the books .
the cancellation of the order could become that the act has was indeed asked .
the démenti of atrocities has a long history .
he is well possible that he there has had of the abuse made by of the bureaucrats British to the over of the long history of the colonisation , but never intentionnellement of this magnitude .
I not believe not that the day has never agreed the actions cruel ill to the Acadians .
in fact , I like you read a letter that I have sent to the robotics General of the Britain - Britain to Houston , the 18 October 1994 , who demonstrates that this not is not a about that I raises for the first time today today .
I will you read this letter such that I the have written :
I have followed of close the developments their to the petition Mr. Warren Perrin regarding the expulsion , in 1755 , of the Acadians of the Nova - Nova .
Mr. . Perrin ask persuading one for the great tragedy that have known the Acadians .
this were of the issues British who had right to the protection of the state .
the treaty of Utrecht of 1713 has yielding the Acadie to the Britain - Britain .
the community é was well established in Nova - Nova since more of a century when this act occasional has was made .
unfortunately , the government British not has never recognized the illégalité of the expulsion seeing in the behalf by his representatives colonialists , which the key responsibility was of protect the issues and the property British .
the time who has past not much nothing to the serious of this act .
the perpétration of this act entache angry the history of the democracy of the Britain - Britain , which this last is if proud .
I am sure that the majority of the Britanniques approuveraient the principle universal that he not there not of deadline of prescription for the crimes against the humanity , particularly when the members of the state caregiver of the crimes to the issues of their country ...
in as that Parliamentary , I am aware of the importance of recognize the mistakes of the past of way to this that they not the occur never .
the expulsion of the Acadians has was a act barbare who has took of the risen great .
goes has was a prospect ethnic bashful and criminal ...
the government British has here the opportunity of to to the people of the world around a statement constructive to the has Universal .
the prospect ethnic , the genocide and the violence to the citizens of a country are fallacious .
he the can that that take of the centuries , but the justice the emportera always .
some will that I not sympathise not opposite to the problems vécus by the Canadians aboriginal .
, the contrary , the Acadians and the aboriginal have was of the friends as the beginning of the colonies .
they have lived and worked together in the harmony and many of between them the mariaient the each to the other .
during the déportation , the history as that the aboriginal are came to the lot of the refugees visited in aware of great risks .
I not have no ranc9ur to the place of the only allies of my from .
a great number of aboriginal are also victims of the actions of those of Lawrence .
in 1756 , Lawrence commanda that of the hostilities be took to the Indian , appearing of the money cash for of the prisoners or of the " scalps " : men , women and children .
they were to the aware of the ' of épuration ethnic long by Lawrence against the Acadians .
they have seen of first with this that Lawrence réservait to those who osaient the contrarier .
the judges of the Court Supreme not could surely not imagine that a bureaucrate would if little civilized .
in a world civilized , a bureaucrate respectueux of the bill would could chamber this that the judges want read in the document , but he not in was not and of Lawrence .
the intention of the judges was commendable , but difficulty trusts .
the judges not must not think that the Parliament is their of respect the citizens .
the democracy is a treasury win of high fight and it deserves the opportunity of be implemented .
the judges should think to help to the place of take of the decisions who create of the ressentiments , of the disservice and of the upheavals .
they not have not thought to the consequences that their interpretation will in our villages inshore and on the and of our resources limited of the sea and of the land .
the judgment of the Court Supreme has already divided of the people who have always lived in the harmony and the respect mutuels .
without pilot , the allow , the jealousy , the greed and the racism are of the forces angry power to been .
many of questions are raised but we receiving little of answers .
the lawyers must already the frotter the hands of satisfaction .
Lawrence would of what be proud .
the purpose of my intervention today today not is not of me apitoyer on the malheurs of the past .
that would for effect of create a mentality of victim who engendrerait of the feelings of infériorité , of acrimony and of indifference .
of other on , that not sounds not to the mentality of the Acadians , well to the contrary .
you direz can - be that he is time that the Acadians , some the mentionnent , pardonnent .
forgive , yes , this is the something to to .
forget ?
never .
those who forgotten are burdened to repeat the mistakes of the past .
the community international starts all fair to discuss of the possible of create a court criminal international permanent for publicize in justice the people guilty of crimes against the humanity .
I you quote a which of the speech that the hon. Lloyd Axworthy has by to the Nations overseeing , the 24 September 99 , who is clear that we répétons the mistakes of the past , and I quote :
he we must absolutely create of the mechanisms for that the people who contravenes to the laws international be held responsible of their actions .
he must Koreas the culture of the impunité .
the possible of be pursued and of be handful must be a reality for the people who recourent to the violence .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , the time who was would to the Senator Comeau is has .
the leave is - it granted to the Senator Comeau of continue the intervention ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator Comeau :
a genocide cultural not the giving not and the agresseur not is never dignified of honour .
the time not efface not the difficulty or the at of Lawrence .
he is to a group of monstres that we not must never vénérer .
he not must never that the behalf be réhabilité .
who would the following ?
not will - they not point that the preventative of Lawrence which the relates to their own preventative ?
I ask therefore to the Court Supreme of until the judgment Marshall in pending the held of a inquiry in good and properly form on the would of the signing of Lawrence on someone document that this be .
the bill not require it not of support the honour and the integrity of the Crown ?
in fact , the judges could the référer to a petition for the institution of a inquiry , tabled by the Acadians in 1760 .
Notez well the date of the petition !
this inquiry has record caduque any bill of prescription who could there .
the Acadians not deserve - they not of be défendus or of be considered as of the guilty of the méfait who has has their déportation by Lawrence ?
if Lawrence has always acted in the right and with the concludes of the Crown , the history will then written .
other , Lawrence should be court salaries , as he the deserves .
some will been of the revers of the with my ask of inquiry in alléguant that this is a symbolisme not relevant of a time up .
I their contend that he not there has not more strike that our commitment to the Crown , to the Gouverneure general and to the robes Red of the judges of our Court Supreme .
( on the motion of the Senator Hays , to the behalf of the Senator Finestone , the debate is adjourned . )
the Adresse in response - Motion Honourable to to end to the debate the eighteenth day of Senate - Adjourned of the debate
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) , pursuant to the notice of the 2 November 99 , move :
that the deliberations to the order of the day for the resuming of the debate on the motion Honourable to the Adopted of a Adresse in response to the speech of the Throne , by by His Excellency the Gouverneure general before the two Houses of the Parliament , the remission the eighteenth day of Senate where the order will was debated .
the hon. ë A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , in trying of understand the why of this motion , I not have could me prevent of think that , if the government to limit - to eight , for be precise - the number of days of debate on the speech of the Throne , this is that he has enormous of difficulty to there find s for that the honourable senators involved to this debate .
if this not is not the reason , then can - be that with - he to someone other consideration .
let how the along our business .
I recognize that few senators have already took on to the debate , and the interventions are limited to 15 minutes each .
four senators could therefore take the speak each day .
, reason of two p.m. by day , this would a appreciates of eight senators .
, the pace of two p.m. by day , this that I not have not seen since the beginning of the session , that would a total of 16 p.m. .
that this scenario , only 32 senators could comment this who must be , of the point of view of the government , the great bill overall of the session .
least of the third of the members of the Senate could therefore participate to the debate on this great vision that the government is supposed have of the Affairs of the Canada .
honourable senators , he we must try of see over - beyond of this motion who parliament to limit the debate .
we should always we question seriously on the control of the debates what that be the question to the study .
how of time the senators of the party first do - they the licensing of time , who is a way of limit the debate ?
the hon. John B . Stewart :
the speech are limited 3:30 minutes .
not the oubliez not .
the Senator Kinsella :
this limit proves s that he must to the impact of the limit of eight days on for the debate in response to the speech of the Throne .
the Senator Stewart the will without doubt of the words of the great writer Joseph Joubert , who has said this :
he worth better debate of a question without the with that of the with without the have debated .
in these documents , of the senior whom of the community of the Affairs of the Canada bogeyman of to this question for the was , for the break Parliamentary , of manner to this that it not raises not a important debate .
I think that our democracy Parliamentary , to the within of a regime bicameral who has success to the it of the time and who is in place since 131 years , has was a extraordinary success , what that in say some leaders of parties of the other place .
be has has , with many of success , the freedom in our country .
I a all those who in win to the challenge of find in the world a region , a country or a regime government where the freedom , the democracy and the rights of the human have was as respected .
honourable senators , I believe that we must all to the resist of limit the debate of someone way that this be , as be attempts of the to now .
by therefore , I move , with the support of the Senator DeWare , that the motion not be not agreed now , but that it be amended by the deleting of the word " eight " and the Alternative by the word " fourteenth " .
the Hon. the Speaker :
you pleasure - he , honourable senators , of adopt the motion of amendment of the Senator Kinsella ?
( on the motion of the Senator Hays , the debate is adjourned . )
the Code criminal
bill of bill Amend - Second Reading
the Hon. the Speaker :
if no other Senator not to take the speak , are - you loans to adopt the motion of second Reading ?
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
before of continue , honourable senators , I like ask to the Senator Oliver of we inform more to the about of the precedent and of the excuse of such practice .
the Senator can - he we inform more on this that he has determined in drafts the Rules and on the precedents ?
the Senator Oliver :
if the Senate agreed to the second Reading , the question will referred to the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Constitutional and legal .
I have a motion who has was indications by the Board and who the based on the precedent established to the Senate .
for answer directly to the question of the Leader Deputy , I could can - be read the motion for that he note by him - even the nature of the precedent established .
I will therefore the to .
by the hon. Senator Oliver , seconded by the hon. Senator Di Nino ,
with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the ( 58 ( 1 ) f ) of the Rules ,
that the documents received and the evidence heard by the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional to the over of the study of the bill Bill S - 17 , Act amend the Code criminal relatively to the harassment criminal and to of other issues other , during of the first session of the 30 - sixth Parliament , be removed to the Committee for the its study of the Bill bill S - 6 .
the Hon. the Speaker :
if no other Senator not to take the speak , then - I from to the question regarding the second Reading ?
the hon. Anne C . Cools :
honourable senators , then - I for a question ?
I me am absentée a minute and I like an the over .
that is - this that the Senator move to the fair ?
he said that he will notice of a motion to this effect and that he the will or are - we already before of the motion ?
the Senator Oliver :
I not have not proposed the motion because that the bill of bill not has not still reached the step of the second Reading .
the Senator Cools :
the Senator Oliver :
he not the is not of the all of a notice .
I have read the motion by déférence for the Senator Hays , who me has asked this that I had in head .
the Senator Cools :
can - be then - I then for my other question ?
when the Senator plans he of we before officially of this notice ?
the Senator Oliver :
a time that the bill of bill can be read a second time .
the Senator Cools :
this not is not very clear .
the Senator to - he say that he will propose a motion to this effect after the second Reading ?
the Senator Oliver :
this is exactly .
the Senator Cools :
this would very interesting .
I thank the Senator .
the Hon. the Speaker :
if no other Senator not to take the speak , then - I from to the motion of second Reading ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Hon. the Speaker :
you pleasure - he , honourable senators , of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed and the bill of bill is read a second time . )
referred to the Committee - Adopted of the motion of amendment
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when read - we this bill of bill a third time ?
the hon. Donald H . Oliver :
I move that the bill of bill be referred to the Committee Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the hon. Anne C . Cools :
he me seems that the committees will constitués of here a or two days , not is - this not ?
the Senator Oliver :
I to amend my motion in adding the words " when obedience Committee will up , the case if " .
the Hon. the Speaker :
is - be of agreed for that the motion be amended ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the hon. Senator Oliver , seconded by the hon. Senator Di Nino , move that the bill of bill be referred to the Committee Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional , when obedience Committee will up , the case if .
you pleasure - he , honourable senators , of adopt the motion amended ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion amended is agreed . )
Affairs legal and Constitutional
motion Requesting the Authorized of use the documents and evidence collected during of the review of the bill of bill precedent for the study of the bill of bill present - Adjourned of the debate
the hon. Donald H . Oliver :
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the ( 58 ( 1 ) f ) of the Rules , I move :
that the documents received and the evidence heard by the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional to the over of the study of the Bill bill S - 17 , Act amend the Code criminal relatively to the harassment criminal and to of other issues other , during of the first session of the 30 - sixth Parliament , be removed to the Committee for the its study of the Bill bill S - 6 .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the leave is - it granted ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the hon. Anne C . Cools :
honourable senators , if I understand well , this motion can - be debated , not is - this not ?
the Senator Oliver :
yes .
the Senator Cools :
the Senator Oliver could can - be start the debate to that we understand well why he move this motion .
the Senator Oliver :
honourable senators , this motion is proposed before all for to save time and money to the public of the Canada .
many of witnesses have expressed their opinion to the about of a bill of bill who is identical to , which we are now before .
the evidence have was transcrits .
the members of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional have asked all the witnesses who have appeared before them .
, the place of réinviter all the witnesses to appear , which some to the costs of the state , for réentendre their testimony , this who will eat the time of the staff and of the senators , I hope that we will power with by referred the evidence who have was transcrits , summarized and widely diffusés for that we not are not to replicating the work .
this is the key reason of this motion , honourable senators .
the Senator Cools :
honourable senators , I believe understand that this motion there to would to a Committee what to .
the proposal its some difficulties because that the Senate not knows not the question that the hon. Senator move the of that , if I have well including , the Committee not has never fact report of the bill of bill to the Senate .
by therefore , the Senate not has never was before of the question .
therefore , the hon. Senator we ask of give of the guidelines on a about which we not have not took knowledge .
that me with a problem and I not know not too how proceed .
if the hon. Senator could we to more of elements , I would pleased of the to .
if this not is not the case , I am prepared to adjourn the debate to that we can have of the time for better we inform on the question .
the Senator Oliver :
honourable senators , the motion not is not a blundering for who that this be .
this is a ask material to the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional .
I c man know that this procedure has was used to of many occasions to the Senate to of was of the evidence on ...
the Senator Cools :
he we is difficult of debate of a motion that we not have not before we .
you we the have called , but that we would drafting of in have a copy before we .
I not know not very well of what we about .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , since the question not seems not to the unanimously , can - be the debate could - he be adjourned and an tomorrow ?
the Senator Oliver :
I am aware of the fact that the Committee not has not still was up .
my motion not the applies that if the Committee is up and when he the will .
I not me am not to this that the question be passed to the Committee as tomorrow since he not there not still .
however , I hope that it not will not been by .
I hope that it can be passed to the Committee before that the program not be responsible of measures legislation government who will certainly priority , to that few witnesses additional can be heard if the Committee the Justice necessary .
the Senator Hays :
honourable senators , I not have not seen in the comments of the Senator Cools , the sign that who that this be of this side - this or it - even wish delay unduly the Adopted of this motion .
he me seems that the motion is valid , but the Senator Cools has of the questions and I believe that it has the right that be the addressed in the framework of a debate on the motion .
I believe understand that the Senator Cools would obtain a copy written of the motion .
in as that Leader Deputy of the government , I can say to the hon. Senator Oliver that we not have absolutely not the intention of this side - this of delay unduly the Adopted of the motion .
the Senator Cools :
honourable senators , I would pleased of propose the adjournment of the debate .
I not believe not that a adjournment causerait a behind whatever , because the committees not have not still was constitués .
I am concern , because he there has a aspect came in this motion and I think that the Senate should the to of way thorough .
if the hon. Senator Oliver wish speak to new , I not have nothing against , but I am pleased of propose the adjournment of the debate , seconded by the Senator Milne .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I with these comments as of the questions to the Senator Oliver , to that we can respect the Rules .
the Senator Oliver :
honourable senators , I am all to fact of agreed with the suggestion of the hon. Senator Hays be that we adjournment the debate .
that the documents received and the evidence heard by the Committee Senate Standing of the Peoples aboriginal to the over of the study of the bills of bill S - 10 and S - 12 ( Act for the self government of the First Nations of the Canada ) during of the 30 - fifth Parliament be referred to this Committee for the its study of the bill of bill S - 14 .
the motion has was implementation to the Senators and agreed .
he there has many of precedents to this about .
( on the motion of the Senator Cools , the debate is adjourned . )
the consequences of the Union Monetary European
Authorized to the Committee of the Affairs foreign of Services of the staff
the Senate on to the study of the second report of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign ( budget - study regarding the Union Monetary European ) , presented to the Senate the 2 November 99 . - ( - hon. Senator Stewart ) .
the hon. John B . Stewart :
honourable senators , I move :
that the Senate does the second report of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign presented to the Senate the 2 November 99 .
the Hon. the Speaker :
you pleasure - he , honourable senators , of adopt the motion ?
the Senator Stewart :
honourable senators , I like say few words on this report , all in for my motion on the third report .
you find to the Reading of the as of the Journals of the Senate of the 2 November 99 that a amount of 36 . $ had was approved for the business of the Committee of the Affairs foreign on the Union European .
we have spent this amount in around to the over of the last session .
we asking today today that the portion of this budget who not has not was used for our study on the NATO be have for the any of this study to the over of the new session and that a amount Supplementary of 10 . $ be also approved .
in the case of the Prime report , all the funds have was used and we asking the granting of 6 500 $ .
in amount , he rest in the budget of the last session , for the two studies confondues , a balance of 64 400 $ about who not have not still was questioned .
the Hon. the Speaker :
if no other Senator not to take the speak , I will to the motion to the Senators .
pleasure - he to the honourable senators of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is adopted , and the report is adopted . )
Affairs foreign
the amendment of the mandate of the Organization of the Treaty of the Atlantic North - Adopted of the report budget of the Committee on the study
the Senate on to the study of the third report of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign ( budget - study on the relationship of the Canada with the NATO and the - of the peace ) presented to the Senate the 2 November 99 . - ( - hon. Senator Stewart ) .
the hon. John B . Stewart :
honourable senators , I move :
that the Senate this the third report of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign presented to the Senate the 2 November 99 .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , pleasure - he to the honourable senators of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed , and the report is adopted . )
the strategies to to answer to the needs of the aboriginal in s of housing
inquiry
the order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the inquiry of the hon. Senator Chalifoux , calling the attention of the Senate on of the strategies to to answer to the needs of the aboriginal in s of housing . - (
the hon. Senator Rompkey , P ) .
the Hon. the Speaker :
regarding the inquiry of the hon. Senator Chalifoux , if human of other not to take the speak , the debate will considered as debated .
the crisis in the sector agricultural
Report of a question of emergency public in under of the section 60 of the Rules
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , we are upon to the end of the order of the day .
I call the hon. Senator Gustafson .
the hon. Leonard J . Gustafson :
honourable senators , pursuant to the paragraph 61 ( 1 ) of the Rules , I move :
that the Senate adjourned now in view of discuss of a question of emergency public , to know the its crisis of the agriculture .
the Hon. the Speaker :
pleasure - he to the honourable senators of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
the hon. Erminie J . Cohen :
honourable senators , I thank His Hon. the Speaker of we have for of to this debate .
I me sense obligée of there participate .
I not am not part of the Committee Senate Standing of the agriculture and of the Forestry .
I opposite in community urbain .
I know very little of something to the agriculture , but as I working to the Defence of the poor , I know this that this is that the despair .
this is this that I have observers when I have attended to a meeting with of the farmers and of the women of farmers of the Alberta , of the Manitoba and of the Saskatchewan he there has few weeks .
I have heard speak of the serious crisis that traversait the agriculture , of saisies imminentes and of his effects devastating on the families of farmers .
this nightmare , honourable senators , the product in a country who on for be , where he fact the better live to the world .
honourable senators , I will now you quote of the evidence took on the great , of the citations of letters that we have showed of women of farmers , of mothers , of parents and of great - parents .
the first letter just of Carol Honourable :
I you write for you express my concern of woman of farmer and of mother to about of the life agricultural .
the life on the firm was pleasant before , but the things have well changed ...
I am by to my husband , Martin , since 13 years .
the first years to the firm not have not was if bad , but the past years have was dévastatrices for we .
my husband has should go the find a employment for to of the economical on the table and acuity to the needs of the family .
he fact also of the agriculture , of so that the life is really painful for him .
he has the as of the rise to 4 p.m. of the morning and of work to the ways until to 2 p.m. of the after - afternoon , for then go with the employment to of defray to the needs of the family .
as he not could the to of take break , some days he was work day and night in conclusion only a hour or two of sommeil .
some nuits , I entendais pleurer and I knew that this was my husband because that he not could all simply not join the two struggling even in working and of however - at .
he wish simply that his children have the same things that the other children .
his health the détériore , he has lost many of negative , he the is replié on him - even , he essaye all this that he can for try of out of the impasse .
I not the in like that more , but this is my husband that I to , not a bomb to delay .
I am in a of dépressif serious to because of the calls phone and of the harassment .
he has was that I also I take a employment to the outside and now I must let my children of 1 , 10 and 11 years without mother .
this is very durum and I pleure all the days where I must the let , I me ask how they will and the they have need of I ...
my daughter Amanda has of the problems to the school , it has of the difficulty to the us to the environment .
, the school be the moque of it because that it not relates not of Gallery habits and that it not has not the same something that the other children .
my son Tyler is followed by a thérapeute because that he knows that the time are durs and that he the fact of the included for we .
him also claims be patient for stay with of we .
very often , the night , he dort to the at of our reads .
when be him ask why , he does that he to see the father .
Joshua , the bébé , is small , but he bad the tension who from in the home and him not more not with not his parents often .
he is with the a or the other .
he pleure when I worries work and he essaye of not not me leave of the be .
this is terrible for a child of have to with it .
the life not is not easy to the firm and I hope of all my heart that we will receive of the assistance very soon .
my husband and I , we not we let never , this who not is not widest for our wedding .
my husband habille the bébé and me the or to the work before of go to the work .
who is the victim ?
the bébé that be trimbale of a place to the other in the cold and that he must réveiller of his sieste .
then , the members of recovery we harcèlent to the telephone .
that given of the price of the grain , who can the to of sell ?
this not is not the grandchildren amounts of these sales who will of with the bills ...
we are all difficulty took .
is - this that someone a we " ?
that so he to our it family ?
our children suffering .
they not can not participate to the activities saxophone with the other , because that we not in have not the means .
ë and the ragged are of the talks tristes for the children and their parents the feel always guilty because that they not can nothing their give .
we had a funds for the studies when the things s well , but we have should use the money for with the bills .
now , the children are to such the college ...
I not know what their answer .
I in would still many to say on the life to the firm now , because I not am that begin .
in ending , I you supplie of come in assistance to the families of the community agricultural who suffering .
aidez the children who live on of the it .
I like that see still my children smile , festival and be free of stress .
the life would well better if the government reflecting simply the be and with conscience of the fact that he there has of the problems of size and that of the children in suffering also .
is a other which , honourable senators :
he must of first that I refers that I must tragic the number of emergency regarding the crisis agricultural ( line 1 - 800 ) for to send this fax since I not have more access to the service of calls distance to because of bills impayées .
for the crop , we have should to of many calls for obtain of the print and of the upkeep .
for that , we have borrowed a telephone potent .
the 10 October , we have should call the doctor for a emergency .
as he not there has not of doctor in our community , we have should to a interurbain .
we not could even not call a opératrice .
my mother is died in July and , to least that they me our , I not could even not could bring with my family or with my father for have of the solace .
we exploitons a firm é since 26 years .
he the is of a firm Joint of 2 500 Tuktoyuktuk and of a business of conditionnement of the seed to value added .
for 17 years , my husband and I have worked to the outside for fund the firm .
as we were to the work all the two , we have should would of the assistance to the firm .
all the money that gagnions would to the employee and , when , - this is party to the across of four years , we have should assume all the work to the firm and to the outside .
he has was difficult of keep the people , since a year .
this is of the Saskatchewan Power Corporation that we have received the more regularly of the calls of recovery .
be is well little of compassion when be is forced of étaler his misères before a employee of a great society as the - that .
as always , I have grown a great potager .
I have past the was and the fall to there work and to désherber , I have congelé and ' in divested the products .
my two congélateurs are with to ras on of légumes and of fruit .
I am proud and satisfied of produce of what esteem my family any a year .
when I have received a letter of the society me saying that the service would be repaired without other notice if the payment not him pushing not , I have took conscience that all my work , all my fruit and légumes , risquaient of the losing because that the people would coupée .
I not so not to believe that be can me forward to me to in a city and to to call to a bank of food while that the resources that I have will tracked .
he there has really someone something who wrong when those who produced of what esteem our country the for completely those .
I - all this that he we must for the meals , the lunchs , such , but that the on he when we even of sugar , of expenditure to pâte , of margarine , of oil ?
that the on he when we even of lessive , of shampoing , of paper of toilette ( we not achetons more of suffice - mouchoirs ) .
he there has of the things that be not can not produce itself - even .
we there of become végétariens , because that we not have not the means of pay the abattoir for to abattre our beef .
is this that wrote a other lady :
each year , we let our community struggle for survive .
each year , it becomes more small .
we not have more the means of cutting the church .
our centre community we ask more of time and of made of food because that the number of members continues of fall .
when I will me expressed , I not see never nothing of new , of refreshing , nothing who give hope .
I not see that of the things who the détériorent , the rapetissent or long .
in our community , the babies are very few .
the farmers have all between 45 and 85 years .
I me ask why we in are that .
I see the good on and the health of my husband constantly with to the it .
my children must to all their efforts for reconcile their employment , the studies and the activities saxophone .
I " my - mother the concern because that he me lack of time for go him to visit .
I am yet always prepared when he the is of serve the goûter after of the funeral , to the bonspiel and to the mariages .
I am the who is that when be has need of assistance to because of a operation , of a accident or of a Late .
I can listen my children when they me speak of the embarrassment of the day , even if this is in the referred of the tracteur , when they me are a sandwich .
and particularly , if of the thousands of other people , all as I , must abandon their and agricultural , where as - we all ?
there has he enough of jobs for we all ?
the production food will it enough without we ?
the Lands will - they cultivées of manner to produce still enough of food for my grandchildren - children and their children ?
this letter just of Judy .
in is a other :
we have tried of diversify our crops , but all does more of money .
we have also thought to all sell , but who would enough about for buy of the Lands ?
and if someone a in achetait , after have paid all the Insurance , he not him reason not great - something .
have - you noticed how of farmers the are suicidés these two past years ?
we were proud of be farmers , but we are now reduced to the of of mendiants .
can - be that if we we installions in a country of the third world , the government Canadian jugerait good of we help .
why should - we esteem of other people of the planet and be forced of die of hunger ?
why the government refuses he of understand and not recognizes - he not the magnitude of our needs ?
please hear our supplications before that he not be too later !
honourable senators , I have debated my pleas .
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I am very happy of power discuss and debate of the question .
as this is a real source of concern , I thank the Senator of we give the opportunity of in speak .
I will begin by try of balance a little the debate that we will hear today today .
I for my colleague of the cabinet , the Minister of the Agriculture and of the Agroalimentaire , of the interest and of the commitment to the regard of a approach national Joint to adopt in reaction to the problems financial who confronting certainly the farmers , in particular in the provinces of the Prairies .
I say that these problems confronting " some farmers " because - and I me hasten of the add - the sector agricultural remains in the together very very and robuste .
in General , the income are very close of the trends to long term and the exports of products agri are to the increase .
( 1610 )
we have hauling the year last more of 22 billion of $ of products agricultural and food .
took separately , the challenges that the farmers have had to met to the over of the last year not are not unique .
the over of the products of basic , the costs , the markets international , the economy and the conditions go fluctueront always , sometimes to the so .
this time - this , however , our farmers have should any of the combinaisons particularly difficult : of the price low for their products and of the costs of production high ; a reduction of the ask of the major markets and a increase of the offer World of products key ; of the conditions go least that ideal and of the floods or of the sécheresses .
under the leadership of the government federal , the representatives of the governments and of the farmers have them together a solution to a problem who is of as more delicate that he not is not brutes in all the country .
the nature and the intensité of , - this vary that the regions and the products Agricultural .
find a solution Universal becomes therefore almost a pain - head .
of the measures have however was taken to this regard .
the Minister of the Agriculture has worked in close cooperation with the provinces and the territories to of improve the program of protection of the income agricultural in which the two levels of government investiront , together , not least of a billion of $ by year .
the government has looked the basis of the reforms to long term who will of improve , with the time , the ability of the producers of the adapt to the crisis of the income , and who we undoubtedly also to to opposite effectively to the future time .
in July last , by example , the Minister of the Agriculture and his Provincial of the provinces and territories have began to sentences a sure number of problems regarding the development of a program of assistance to more long term in case of disaster linked to the income agricultural .
in the framework of the discussions , be has has the need of ensure to this that the program to long term works effectively with the CSRN , the insurance - crop and the programs complementary special to each province who make the system of protection of the income agricultural .
in August and in September , to the opportunity of meetings denies of the country exporters of substantially agricultural , the Minister of the Agriculture has also by a combat to that the system commercial international génère of the income senior for the farmers Canadian .
he the is of the battle dates for of the rules of the at field .
the Minister has presented the Position of negotiating of the Canada for the next meeting of the Organization World of the trade .
very of the support of the government and of the industry , he has calling the abolition of the grants to the export , a reduction of the measures national of support to the agriculture who have a effect of distorsion commercial and a accessibility increased of the farmers Canadian to more of markets .
these measures are of the elements important of the strategy global to to improve the income of the producers .
between time , honourable senators , the government has also ' in implement of the measures for increase the income , for facilitate the access to a insurance - crop more complete , for speed the access to the loans and to the savings and for increase the households to the time timely .
for relieve the impact of a - of the income , the government of the Canada has public , in consultation with the producers and the provinces , the Program of assistance in case of disaster linked to the income agricultural , also called ACRA , program of 1.5 billion of $ .
the government federal provides 60 per of the funding , and the provinces , the 40 per who remain .
that represents 900 million of $ , honourable senators .
he the is of a program of two years to the intention of the farmers who are to the taken with of the small of income criticism .
the government of the Canada has also respected a commitment of the Minister , , of provide to the farmers of the Payments interim in the framework of the ACRA ; other said , the farmers can have access more quickly to the funds which they have need , to the place of duty expect that all the calculus be facts to the end of 99 , year for which the ask is introduced .
agriculture and Agroalimentaire Canada has ' to the point a formula of calculating quick for help the farmers to assessment the payment which they have right .
honourable senators , we facilitons also the access to the CSRN .
we have substantially assoupli the rules provisions to the retraits of the accountable of stabilization of the income net and to the Having in these the .
in make , 41 . farmers additional have access more quickly to more of funds .
, the end of the months of June , by on of the consultation with of the provinces , the Minister has announced of the changes to the CSRN who it 117 million of $ of more to the clause of the farmers .
the retraits of the CSRN and the Payments to the as of the ACRA should , that the forecasts , slow of way appréciable the - of the income in the Prairies in General and in Saskatchewan in particular .
the Minister of the Agriculture the is to this that the full amount of 1.5 billion of dollar an to the program ACRA be paid for 1998 and 99 .
in addition , more of per . farmers of a across to the other of the country nor of almost 1,2 billion of $ in their accountable of stabilization of the income net , which they can to of the retraits as now .
this is to that that they used .
close of 26 . farmers the have already fact to up of more of 274 million of $ for power extension this period difficult .
in Saskatchewan only , to the end of the months of October , someone 13 . producers have puisé in their CSRN and from more of 119 million of $ .
this are of the amounts internal who can help a great number of families of farmers to the back on at .
a myriad of between you the will surely that of the serious of the difficulties that are the farmers and their family who have was affected by the floods and the drought , and compatissent without doubt to their fate .
grateful the problem , the government of the Canada has worked of our with the province of the Saskatchewan for improve the regime of insurance - crop on which that as of farmers .
for relieve the difficulties of the producers , he has assoupli the rules of the regime of insurance - crop , increased the benefits , heavy the treatment of the requests and facility the access to the regime .
of new measures have was announcements this was , and the farmers of the Saskatchewan have affected until to 25 $ the acre of insurance - crop Supplementary on the neatly not ensemencée , in other of the 25 $ the acre already some for the neatly not ensemencée in under of the regime of insurance - crop of basic .
a other supplement of 25 $ the acre has was " to the farmers of the Saskatchewan and of the Manitoba who not have could would this spring .
this assistance is provided to as of payment interim in the framework of the program ACRA .
the government federal has also took of the measures to of help the farmers to manage their income in purchased to this that they have of the households the more earlier possible after the season of growth .
I quote these figures for try of balance the debate , not not for deny the serious problems are are opposite the farmers .
the sector agricultural knows of serious problems , be not can the deny .
conjugués , the factors that I have mentioned - low price of the products of basic and the fact that the rules not be not playing - have ' this sector of our economy in a situation very difficult .
this is why , even to the time where we about , of seriously talks have place between the representatives federal and provincial .
not more later that the week last , the Prime Minister the is talked with the first ministers of the Saskatchewan and of the Manitoba to this about .
the Minister federal of the Agriculture , Mr. Vanclief , is in touch Standing with his Provincial provincial .
the situation is serious and the government the with in make .
that said , I you ask of me forgive this léger gap .
he must the remind that the government federal and the provinces the shared the responsibility of the situation agricultural and of the sector agricultural .
the solution to the problem not ahead not in the Adopted of a legislation unilaterally by the government federal .
by example , that of the information recent from of the province of origin of the Senator Gustafson , the are aside to the support of the agriculture in Saskatchewan by the Administration provincial have known a further very draconienne since the beginning of the years 90 .
yesterday , the Auditor provincial of the Saskatchewan , Convervatives Strelioff , has announced that the are aside to the programs agricultural by the province of Saskatchewan have decreased of more of 70 per since 1991 - 1992 .
, this time , the are aside by the province to the programs agricultural in Saskatchewan the planet to 1,2 billion of $ .
in 1997 - 1998 , they were of Naturalization million of $ .
but this Prime Minister can the to in the capital , such that the government of the Canada him designed immediately 1.3 billion of $ and repartir then in for to the outrage , without even record the any the to of the own government .
this is a problem federal - provincial .
he must be has by the two levels of government .
Mr. . Ken Krawetz , relates - speak of the Finance of the Opposition official in Saskatchewan , crunch the its crisis of the income agricultural to the government provincial .
when the Auditor provincial has fact of of the Funding with by the government provincial , he has said :
this is the reason for which our economy agricultural in the problems that it knows to the hour current .
honourable senators , this who the product to the level of the government provincial of the Saskatchewan fact upon the need of a intervention federal - provincial opposite to this serious situation .
he not the is not of a case where be can be to from a advantage partisan .
this problem is too of importance for the country .
the challenge to met is too great .
the problem which are opposite the farmers of the Prairies not is not arts ; he is real .
he not has not seen the day yesterday and he not will not resolved tomorrow .
I have talked the efforts provided until to now by the government .
I hope have of the insurance that the Minister of the Agriculture and the government continue to appreciation of the interest to the regard of this sector very important and that they consentiront of new efforts in a it future .
the hon. A . Raynell Andreychuk :
honourable senators , the existence of a crisis in the field agricultural not fact no doubt .
he is formidable that the agriculture is in crisis since long .
he is sure also that the governments , provincial and federal , brought of time to other for help the farmers .
the difference , today today , this not is not that we not have not of solution to long term , this is that the government federal not the makes not that that the situation in Saskatchewan and to the Manitoba , in the Prairies in General , not is not the even that , to the Canada .
I say even that , to my notice , all the facts and all the figures cities by the Senator Boudreau are will .
I not have no reason of douter of his figures .
it an the teachers , the doctors , the lawyers , the pompistes and the serveuses .
even without see the figures , all the world the makes well that that the farmers are in a situation extremely serious .
this is a situation of long office linked to the senior and to the there of the situation international , therefore , to the exports .
however , for a reason or a other , the farmers the for this time - this in a situation extremely serious .
a delegation provincial is came to Ottawa for clamour of the assistance .
can - be these people have - they could to more , can - be have - they should to more .
they understand now the serious of the problem and the need of there be immediately .
they formerly and guide a response whatever of the government federal .
what has was this response ?
" rentrez in you , we will review the figures still a time . "
he not there had not this will of work together , this will of look the Saskatchewan and the Manitoba of a i different .
the Senator Cohen has mentioned some letters sent to the parliamentarians .
we receiving all of the letters désespérées .
honourable senators , the problems in Saskatchewan not clauses not only of the questions agricultural international .
they come in great part of the fact that the agriculture and the questions agricultural own to the Saskatchewan are to the there of the list of priorities of the questions agricultural .
he not there not to this day a policy agricultural national who é that of the variations and of the employees own to the various regions .
we not osons not develop a strategy national .
we we préoccupons always of the problems own to the farmers of the Quebec and of the Ontario .
we know that the Saskatchewan and the Manitoba have of other problems , without speak of the problems of the producers of fruit of the British - British and of the farmers of the Canada Atlantic .
we imputons all our problems to the situation international .
we can speak of the Elimination of the grants and continue actively a strategy , under the leadership Mr. Marchi , for have the States - United and the Europe to eliminate their grants .
the fact is that they not the have not fact in the past and that they not the will not now .
yet , we back without has to the even strategy .
we not have nothing fact of new , of novateur or of different .
our leaders federal must forward a strategy , as they the have fact with the group of Cairns he there has a sure number of years .
that we has for of throughout of the gains , and we in removed still the benefits in the structures trade global .
where is the new s brilliant ?
if we not have not of strategy , we will to the pulled of the Americans and of the Europeans .
nothing in the speech of the government federal not me it hope that he has including that he must to the question under a new contempt .
we in have had a example striking with the legislation legislative regarding the Board Canadian of the Wheat .
we have left to the board of Administration of the Board Canadian of the Wheat the be of with the problems of the farmers Canadian and of the west of the Canada to the place of develop of the programs of support legitimate to the intention of the farmers .
by example , what is our policy of marketing of the grain ?
the problem , this is that the government federal not includes not that he must to evidence of creativity and attempt of find of new solutions to the crisis of the agriculture in the Western .
the first ministers provincial not have not always , them not more , including the message .
he has was of the election for in réveiller few - each and their to understand that we not are not to the taken with a problem Standing which he must find a solution to long term .
we are in full crisis .
the ministers Goodale and Vanclief would still that he is possible of with the problem with the programs existing .
for that they understanding of prove their point , the farmers are bankrupt .
he not we will more that of major companies agricultural .
the government must play Summer - at .
to - he that the agriculture continues of be a way of life copy who assure the production of the substantially who we are necessary ?
we can continue to manipulate the figures , he rest that the farmers of the Saskatchewan are more many that never to abandon their Lands .
the families about of the pressure without precedent .
we not will not in legislation of support the agriculture in Saskatchewan if we let on this lancée .
honourable senators , the time by is has .
of the speech have was heard in the two Houses .
all the parties other that , of the government recognize that the debate has was enough long and that he is to this of take a commitment governments .
if the Prime Minister , or the Minister of the Agriculture , had " a assistance of emergency to the farmers of the Saskatchewan , who are point for cent of the public , he their would of a in of recognition .
today today , we comptons the votes .
the Saskatchewan and the Manitoba not will not the majority .
he not is not in our interest of criticism this situation to the provinces .
these past will amenées to assume their on of all program who will led and they have already indicated their agreed .
the government federal seems reject his responsibilities on the other and he not has nothing proposed of ' to this day .
the Leader of the government to the Senate has redit that the government étudierait the figures advanced and that he paid his business in of the committees denies of the representatives of the provinces and of the community agricultural .
the government federal is the only to support that the program in effect give of good results .
all the agencies agricultural , the governments provincial and particularly the farmers forward the contrary .
honourable senators , that will he required for that the government come in assistance to those who want continue of ensure the supply food and for that the Saskatchewan and the Manitoba continue of to part of the imperfect Canadian ?
the hon. Sharon Carstairs :
honourable senators , I thank the hon. Senator Gustafson of have initiated this debate of emergency on this important question .
I thank the senators Spivak , Andreychuk , Gustafson , Tkachuk and Sparrow who , during the spring and the fall , have often asked of the questions to the government on the problems that knows the sector agricultural , particularly in Saskatchewan and to the Manitoba .
honourable senators , he is important of know that , when the government federal working with the provinces , the associations agricultural , the farmers and the producers to the preparedness of a plan , and that the plan not works not , he not must not in to to all the blame to the government , this who is too often the case .
however , this not is not a program ' in Bill only by the government federal .
this is a program federal which the provinces involved .
the provinces were like of announce this program with the government federal .
they believed that he would the producers agricultural in difficulty in the together of the country .
hélas , that not has not was the case .
when the government federal said that he must to the criteria , study the program and find of the means of the to operate , we must there see someone something of valid .
when the government federal fact out that he not is not the only intervening in because and that he not can propose a program that the other parties who To to the program distinct not s not , we not can not act .
this not is not a problem who depends only of the government federal .
since the ACRA is a program to 60 / 40 , that means that the provinces must offset 40 forced of the costs .
the a of the more important problems are the farmers of the south - west of the Manitoba and of a great part of the Saskatchewan have fact opposite has was the flood .
the Prime Minister shares and Vanclief , the Minister federal of the Agriculture , in are came to a agreement .
they the are heard on a amount Supplementary of 50 $ by acre of ground not ensemmencé .
that the is - he past in my province ?
the Prime Minister , before the to to the voters , has decided of not not sign this agreement .
the government federal not could go of the before without the participation of the province since the program of insurance - crop is a program earnings .
this not is not a program federal unilatéral .
he is important of know exactly why the ACRA not works not .
clear , the criteria under by all the partners not were not the good .
was - this wanted ?
there has he had a attempt deliberate of to in place a program who not fonctionnerait not ?
not , I not the believe not .
I think that the Senator Andreychuk has reason , he would was be particularly sensitive to the problems of the Saskatchewan and of the Manitoba .
let why the program not has not of the results was .
the senators Spivak and Andreychuk have were to my attention the fact that the farmers were forced of the address to a abide that they payaient 400 , 500 or higher $ for that he remplisse the documented .
clear , this is the first mistake .
if the documented was so eliminated , we have should provide to the farmers the assistance necessary for the as .
we not the have not fact .
he is unfortunate that we are did this opportunity , s to the beginning of the summer academic , of Services and of form of young students in accounting for help the farmers to as these documented .
we not the have not fact .
the Senator Sparrow has fact out that , for a sure program , the documented not rentraient even not in the need who were found .
this was can - be a program different , but we not have not responded also quickly to this such of details that we have should the to .
that the is - he past ?
on a program of 1.5 billion of $ , which 900 million of the government federal , that my more recent figures , only 236 million have was questioned .
the Senator Gustafson :
the money is also went to the bad people .
the Senator Carstairs :
where will the rest of the money ?
the Senator Spivak :
, the bad people .
the Senator Carstairs :
why these farmers in the need not are - they not eligible to these funds ?
how can - we to in so that they receive this money ?
before that we not begin to speak of new funds , we must we ensure that the farmers of the Saskatchewan and of the Manitoba receive the money already committed .
I am fully outset that the Minister Vanclief working of however - at , s for find quickly the way of back the rest of this money to the farmers of the Saskatchewan and of the Manitoba .
we must to the price .
we must understand that , to nowhere other time of our history , the price not have was also there , in $ comparable .
we must work in cooperation , and I not about not only of the provinces and of the government federal .
the Leader of the government to the Senate has has the contributions reduced that the government of the Saskatchewan fact to the agriculture .
I am désolée of say that the even situation there to the Manitoba .
all the world has priesthood and decided of spending least for this sector .
honourable senators , of the changes very complex have dismantling the evolution of the agriculture in the west of the Canada .
we not have not still responded as he is to all these changes .
the only way which we réussirons to satisfy to the needs of the farmers of the west of the Canada , this is if the governments federal and provincial , the farmers and the agencies of producers To all .
of the Senators :
hear !
the hon. Mira Spivak :
honourable senators , I thank His Hon. the Speaker of have for this debate .
some of between you not the know can - be not , but he has to a time represented a riding agricultural that I know well , soitSte. Rose , to the Manitoba .
I have also well loved the comments from of the other side of the House , be those of the Senator Carstairs and of the Leader of the government .
I know that their comments are sincere .
I not is not the fact that of the dirty have was views of on and of other .
we must work together , but he rest a sure number of points to tidy .
, my notice , be not recognizes not enough the uniqueness pressing of the problem .
he not is not of the with on the programs in effect ; they not have not of importance to the hour current .
the problem is pressing .
why the problem is - he if pressing ?
the situation is well worse that in the years 30 because that the farmers are many more debt .
they have spent of the are incredible to the acquisition of fairest and of intrants .
now , the Banking are ready to before the hailed in too of guarantee .
the farmers not come not to pay their taxes .
can - be is - he true that the government of the Saskatchewan has reduced of 70 per his contribution financial to the community agricultural , but the government federal has contributed to the problem .
when I about of the government federal , I not hear not only the government Liberal .
I to say the government federal , , who has reduced of 60 per the grants to the transportation in view of fall the deficit .
this - was too way and is one too quickly and it has had of the consequences surviving for the farmers of the Manitoba .
he not there has that the government federal who that a assiette tax enough important for provide now this amount of 1.3 billion of $ .
the governments provincial , and little any the sins who have was made by the authorities previous , and God knows that they have was many , not have not the assiette tax deal for their come in assistance .
the provinces have reduced the deficit and an of the money to the health and to the education .
the government federal the is now to a surplus of 60 billion of $ and more to the over of the next years .
of the money is for to the Fund of staffing of the scholarships of studies of the millennium and to of other activities who are important , but who not are not a crisis high .
as the honourable senators the have said here , a way of life is in are of people .
any the economy agricultural of the Western is turned under the influence of the integration vertically .
the Cargill and of other businesses the empareront of more in more of hailed agricultural if we maintenons this Cape .
if you not want not that that the " , you must act quickly .
sometimes , the better way of act is to manner in the great .
these Canadians very productive are took to the community of a War economic .
I like that the honourable senators know that our farmers are productive .
yet , the government not seems not see the enormous disadvantage competitive of the farmers Canadian which the sector has hauling the year last for 26 billion of $ .
this not is not the access to the markets who is in because here , but the price paid for the product .
the access to the markets can help the producers , but when this access is finally assured , he is can - be already too later .
the competition is impossible on the markets of export when the grants paid by the States - United and the Europe are imports to well of the time this that the government of the Canada can would .
the message that the government has persistent to the farmers by the through of the first ministers provincial the week last not had nothing of surprisingly .
the government their has fact know that he contain their ask of assistance Supplementary .
they are true in July .
Dwain Lingenfelter , the Minister of the Agriculture of the Saskatchewan , states that the figures of the government federal an can - be of serious mistakes .
course , the opinion is biased because that he working and in in Saskatchewan , that he the are with the farmers and that he is the problem of close .
by against , the officials federal have , that the words of Rex by , the advantage " of a perspective déformée by a périscope of vision to long distance " .
the Minister Lingenfelter has should that the figures federal surestimaient the gains , there including in the case of the Payments in under of the ACRA and of the CSRN .
of a way or of the other , these new estimates indicate a reduction of 60 million of $ of the costs of and in Saskatchewan , this who is appréciable .
be not knows not of where from these figures .
the Minister of the Agriculture of the Manitoba has said that the forecasts federal official for the Saskatchewan and the Manitoba , who have was published in July , invited valid because that very little of things have changed since .
however , the ministers provincial have said that the payment of equalization of 1.3 billion of $ to the chapter of the trade , that they had asked of Ottawa , was well little .
, the across of the that , little any the estimates , he is indéniable that our farmers have need of assistance now .
they are fully related to the economy and to the trade to the has World .
the price that the farmers must would for the property and services are constantly in increase .
I am referring to the engrais , to the herbicides , to the fuel , to the services public , to the assurance and to the upkeep .
, they only , the Estimates the recommend between 60 and 80 $ by acre .
this amount not includes not the taxes , the upkeep to the property and the borrowing for the equipment who can to 40 $ by acre .
when the Wheat the vendait 160 $ the would and the theory 355 $ the would , the farmer earned in end of that someone something .
this year , the price of the Wheat the at to 24 per over - indicates of the average of the five past years and the price of the theory has descended of a third .
the price of the products has reached the a of the levels the more there never what , for three reasons .
the first is that this year , all as the year last , the production is far Superior to the average .
the second is that the ask has descended in reason of the situation financial in the world , particularly in Asia .
the third is that our major competitors , the States - United and the Union European , base their farmers of these conditions trade very get in their easier of strong grants .
as have could the see the members of the Committee of the agriculture when they the are people in Europe , these grants encouragent the surproduction , who system a saturation of the market and fact drop the price .
the grants who are awarded , are a problem important for our farmers .
since 1993 , the Canada has reduced of 45 per the assistance that he would to the agriculture .
the States - United the have reduced of 34 per , and it not has not virtually not falling in the Union European .
the OECD believe to 17 $ American by acre , in average , the assistance granted to all the farmers - not only to the producers of grain and of seeds oléagineuses .
this assistance is of 45 $ by acre to the States - United and of 362 $ by acre in the Union European .
without measures of support of the income additional outlined to fair as by the delegation of the Saskatchewan as of the Payments of equalization commercial , the farmers of the Saskatchewan will collectively about 48 million of $ .
be evaluated these losses to per million of $ to the Manitoba .
no sector industrial not could hope stay competitive in of such circumstances .
he must with the problem of the grants international .
between - time , the government federal must help more our farmers .
if , our farmers must back their Lands , a to a , to the Banking and to the deadly who can the to of expect that the government has of the entêter or that the country of the UE réduisent the assistance that they overwhelmingly to their farmers .
, the on of the studies and of the trip in Europe of the Committee Senate of the agriculture , we know all that the poules will of the you before that the UE réduise the assistance .
if the government continues of follow this line of conduct , he becoming a seaway without precedent for our country .
contrary to the governments who not could hardly to of assistance to the time of the great crisis , the government present has of the money .
he would the means of help the producers food to overcome this period difficult .
honourable senators , I about particularly of the people of the west of the Canada .
the producers dairy and the producers of volaille the in terms well in reason of the programs of management of the offer .
some could any the government federal and of other levels government of be to the origin of the problem , because they have imposed to the sector agricultural of the cuts higher to 1 billion of $ for with the problem of the deficit .
why the government should - he help the farmers to keep their Lands ?
in as that CIBC of the Western , I would tentée of say that he should the to because that the sector agricultural is the soul of a broader part of our country .
I about here of the hailed agricultural family .
this way of life is also asset for the families of farmers that the French the is for the Quebecers , that the life in sea or to closest of the - this the is for the people of the provinces of the Atlantic and that the mountains and Forestry the are for the Columbians - Columbians .
I am tentée of speak of the value cultural and patrimoniale of the agriculture .
I know however that to the across of the that , he not there will that the figures who compteront for the government - the number of seats , the revenues and the statistics on the exports .
honourable senators , I hope that some of between them not conservation not too to controversy .
a economical costs sometimes 2 $ or more .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the Senator Spivak :
I ask the leave of continue .
the Hon. the Speaker :
leave is - it granted ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator Spivak :
, reason of 30 bushels to the acre , the 160 Tuktoyuktuk of the farmer are of what to for 342 . $ of economical .
the farmers are can - be to the on of the bankrupt , but many of people rely on their grain for throughout a joli profit or body a income modest .
a other example important is the - of barley who loses of the money on all the Tuktoyuktuk .
in produisant 50 bushels to the acre and in the selling to of the brasseries for to of the meal , the - génère of the revenues tax great for the governments federal and provincial .
finally , honourable senators , I tabled of the letters of children of our region for that the Senators of those - this be heard .
he must refute this disaster if the be not to not that any the economy agricultural of the Western be turned .
have - I the leave of table these letters ?
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , the Senator Spivak ask to table of the letters .
want - you that these letters be tabled ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the hon. Douglas Roche :
honourable senators , he the with this night a debate capital on the difficulties of the industry agricultural of the Canada .
the agriculture is the heart of the economy of my province , the Alberta , and the farmers of the province not have not loved the treatment unresponsive who has was " to the first ministers of the Saskatchewan and of the Manitoba when they have presented their requests legitimate to the government of the Canada .
this insensibilité of the government federal has fact of as more difficulty that it the is benchers to the time where the government federal engrangeait a extraordinary surplus .
the farmers and their leaders have was disappointed by the lack of leadership of the government , who not has not responded of way satisfactorily to the situation disastrous in which the find the farmers Canadian .
of the families are in are of losing their firm , and of the plants must close their doors in Alberta and in Saskatchewan , this who the they by of the losses of jobs and a great distress social and economic .
we are witnesses of the agony of any a industry and of his effects devastating on the public of the Western .
will - we say to the public of the Western that the government federal not can nothing to for it then that he must decide what to with his panels surplus budget who not same of at .
he is clear that the public of the Western has need of a assistance transitional of the on of the government federal for the adapt .
the industry is - struck because that his competitors of the other country benefit of grants to the export and of grants Canada .
the government must surely to that of the difficulties of the Prairies in the development of his strategy for the summit to come of the Organization World of the trade , who the will to Miami .
however , the situation current not must not be grew for the negotiations trade , who could an long , because those - this not will of no lot if the industry agricultural is completely careers .
a assistance federal Supplementary is required now .
the hon. Nicholas W . Taylor :
honourable senators , I at to this debate with a some carking , because in the field of the agriculture , he is difficult of take exactly the measures who the do .
we we strictly on the Standards to a free market to the year , and we let the and agricultural é not only as a business , but as a home , a way of life and a community , as be the has already has .
this is a problem difficult .
he is of the remind that he there has to only six years , the organizations agricultural were to Ottawa and to Edmonton , where I at to the legislature legislative , for ask to the government of the withdraw of the sector of the agriculture .
I am a member of the Committee of the agriculture and we parcourons the Western , in particular the Manitoba and the Saskatchewan , who have more of " that the Alberta , my province , and where the problem is probably worse still .
of more , in as that member of the Committee of the agriculture , I have visited the Europe for try of me speak with the representatives of the Community European .
as the Senator Spivak the has out to fair as , the Europeans not have not really the intention of change .
be authorization in the field of the agriculture to a revolution in someone so .
the government present , who the is be my government , is forced of into the assistance to the operators agricultural and to the producers of substantially in service of the product in a form of insurance - income .
that is come all naturally to the Canada because , in as that Canadians , we exportons a if great on of our production food compared to all other country that , if we tentions of firms the price of our products , that he the whether of Wheat , of apples or of what that this be of other , the rest of the country not could not with these Estimates .
and , we have found a solution who , we the hope , will quickly agreed by the Europe Western .
be has had a view of that in Germany and in Scandinavie where , to the place of pay the producers of substantially in service of the units of production , that he the whether of a cow , of a pinte of milk or of a bushel of grain , be has established a some form of insurance - income .
we have tried of to understand to the Europeans of the Western that their method revert to pay the producers of substantially in service of the product conduisait to the pollution of their environment .
of the nitrites contaminaient their nappe phréatique to because of a too great fertilisation and of a invasion for various types of bad herbes , and that to the on of changes génétiques for increase the production of grain .
the Europeans modifiaient the grain and the rest .
when be reward the farmers in service of their production , as the Europe of the Western and the States - United the are , be because many of pity to the environment .
very judicieusement , the Canada has deliberation for the insurance - income .
in fact , we not should not look the bébé with the water of the bain .
the insurance - income the effondre in the Prairies .
he not there has not of doubt that our way of excellent the income not works not very well in Saskatchewan and to the Manitoba .
however , he is interesting of see that this regime works well in Alberta .
that me ennuie of the say , because that I was part of the Opposition and that I have attacked the government to the time , but the members of the government albertain have was among the first to the Canada to propose the idea of ensure the income .
that has very well fonctionné .
a sure number of accidents geological and more are that this province has least of problems that we , in Saskatchewan and to the Manitoba , but it uniting to with the problem better that the other provinces .
this is particularly because that it has consulted the producers agricultural , the amenant to think to the insurance - income , not for obtain as of $ the acre or as of $ for the Wheat , this who false the market .
if the be is really in favour of the market free , be to do the system of way to this that the market free works well , this who i , well course , the existence of a insurance - income whatever .
, this regard , the government Canadian has fact a not in the good leadership in instaurant the ACRA and the other programs of assistance designed for command the farmers and the producers of have épargné of the money in for of days more difficult .
in Ontario , the allowance reached about 15 . $ by - and , in the together of the Canada , it is of to little close 14 . $ by - .
all system or program based on the income require that the farmers the roles of their accounting well differently that be not the was in the past .
if the government is found of someone something , this is can - be of the lack of sensitivity which the bureaucrats have fact evidence in instaurant a regime of insurance - income rather that a regime of insurance - products .
that the be the is sometimes little compassionate , is who is inexcusable .
the problem has can - be was accomplices by the fact that the government the is shown a little unresponsive in his relations with the farmers in this who with the regime of insurance - income , but he must see the things of the point of view of the farmers .
their fatalisme and their despair not are not fully the fact of the government , and their sense the timely and : " If the government not has not could sell my Wheat the year last and that the potato are dominant this year , then that I not cultive that of the grain , that will - I to the year next ? "
be not move not , and can - be the should - be , of the means of change the system for to to the farmers of the prospects of future in this field .
the only way who seems the to to them is to to competition to the Europeans of the Western and to the Americans , who benefit of grants , and to ask then to the government of fill the difference .
they know that all government will by say : " It must to a preferment to all it .
be can more you firms on the basic of the over of the products agricultural . "
a so of revolution the is in the production food .
the farmer not knows not to what the in to ; the Opposition said that the government not knows not the solution , and nothing not me allows of believe that the Opposition , here or to the other place , the knows .
honourable senators , I like that he we be proposed a solution of alternative - that he we be proposed a little more that a simple review objective .
he so sometimes that the first idea be the good .
we have our own Committee of the agriculture .
we could can - be to a effort for the producers of the sector agroalimentaire , their back hope in their can of continue their activity in their community and of there to supplying their children , to the place of we " of their remind that he we must support the competition of the Americans and of the Europeans and that we even of money .
this not is not a solution .
of such will that the protection of the income is as a depend of security who would sympathized under the not of a funambule .
if we réussissons to to in place a program of protection of the income who , by the action of the free business , will to the farmers of find their own solutions of alternative , we will accomplished someone something .
I ask urge to the Senate of make a action in this sense , because this not are not the ideas who we are .
the hon. David Tkachuk :
honourable senators , I like before any something thank His Hon. the Speaker of have authorized this debate today today .
this reduction has was opérée by a government NDP - votes .
this initiative has without doubt for of intangibles the deficit of the province .
, the seen of the situation current , the government and the senators of in opposite should power encourage the province to mobilizing of the financements complementary , since they the while if well with the NDP - i .
Melenchuk and shares are partners in policy , they members of the even side of the House , and , in this who with the public of the Saskatchewan , they not are that a .
and recognize , in this who with the farmers , they not are that a .
as the has fact having the Senator Spivak , this election has incitéM. shares , the Prime Minister of the Saskatchewan , to directing Ottawa for in obtain of the assistance for his farmers .
in my quality of Conservative , I then to all the least say that Alvin Hamilton , John Diefenbaker , Don Mazankowski , Bill concludes , Charlie Mayer and Brian Mulroney has the time of listen and of understand the Canadians of the Western .
I not can not in say as of the present government federal .
when he was our Prime Minister , Mr. Mulroney with the time of the with on the situation of the agriculture in the Western ; and he succeeds to in cerner the problems , to the contrary of the predecessor immediate , who was of with Liberal and who is , well heard , the present Prime Minister .
, my notice , that the price of the products of basic idle not interest not the Liberal .
by example , when the price of the canada is times and that the Canadians of the Western have began to in withdraw the benefits , the Liberal have ' in place the Program Energy national , a program who has to the provinces productrices of canada of the billion of $ who their belonged for the lifetime to all the rest of the Canada .
by the on , they have paid the price policy and despite the small sursaut of 1993 , he paieront still a time the price policy .
the response of the government to this crisis has was the program ACRA .
this is a response Liberal typical .
this is a program of assistance social .
we not remplissons not of documented .
this not is not and that we responding .
yet , this is this that the Liberal the expect to this that the farmers do .
in 1996 - 1997 , the income agricultural net national has descended of 55p. per , and has descended still of 35p. per in 1997 - 1998 .
in Saskatchewan and to the Manitoba , the income agricultural is negatively .
the government present not has not of policy agricultural national .
all this that he move when he there has a problem in the Western this are of the solutions interim .
in the areas very peuplées of the East , he there of the boards of marketing , a program of grants paid directly to the - by the so .
this is exactly this in what is a board of marketing .
this is a monopoly .
in the Western , we we débrouillons all only .
we know all this who the on in Europe .
some country pay until to 8 $ the bushel of Wheat .
the governments European the subventionnent , because they not can not the sell to this price .
they not can even not the brader .
of other country not want not more eliminate their programs of grants that we not want eliminate our boards of marketing .
the reason to that is that , a time that you are habitués to the grants and that you grandissez and that you you enrichissez with these grants , he becomes politically impossible of the eliminate .
this is this who so in Europe .
the Americans the are thrown in the battle .
they have decided of the fight against the Europeans and they subventionnent now their agriculture .
for this time , the poor farmers of the Western Canadian , not from not of protection on the market , the find in a impasse .
this not is not rare in the Western .
this not is rare nowhere on for the farmers .
when the Lands of a farmer are fertiles and that he with of other people from the benefits of his Lands , to of the economical , of the whisky , of the meal or flair his products to there price in the world around and that that not him quoted nothing , the situation is criticism .
this is this who the on today today in the Prairies .
the Senator Taylor has said that he not had not heard the senators of this side - this propose of solutions .
I not know not very well this that we should to , but I know a something : we not can not continue of grow of the products that all the other country subventionnent .
we know our economy and we know that if the under are bradées in Europe , be not can not to of profit on the under in America of the North .
however , this is this that are these country .
they bradent their Wheat .
the Canada is a country exporter .
he not there has not enough of people to the country for eat all this that we produisons .
we must the protect because that they know how operating these Lands .
we not can the let the appauvrir and leave their Lands .
we must to on at a program national who would based not not on the assistance social , but rather on a strategy agricultural industrial for that these Lands should serve to other something .
honourable senators , we must also be a period of transition .
I believe that he would be a period of transition of 10 years to the over of which the farmer host a some amount by acre of land .
he would then considerations to adopt a culture effective since he would then more of money .
however , he not would not reduce the payment to the acre " to a farmer who uniting .
reselling - we rather that he nervous for that he be in legislation of abandon him - even the grant .
this is this that we must to .
we not can not ask to the Europeans of abandon to the grants .
forget that .
we know all this who so with the assistance social .
the people among of more in more dépendants and they say of the in out .
this is this who so .
the Americans have decided of act other .
in as that Conservative , I believe that the life deals is a great importance for a country .
I not like not that all the Canadians live in of the cities .
the regions rural are a such of found .
good number of people it that he is well of power go in the nature or of the expressed in a granny where he not there has human .
be the ' in someone so only .
if you are already gone in the regions rural of the Saskatchewan , of the Alberta , of the Quebec or of the Ontario , you know exactly this that I to say .
the regions rural are different and they are important .
however , they must also be classes of the point of view economic .
the people of the regions rural are intelligents .
for live and survive in campaign , he must be gracious and work very .
giving a little of hope to the farmers .
mess of say that they are in difficulty and that he there a program of assistance social .
that not will in nothing .
these people not want not of the assistance social .
they not in have never wanted and not in want not more now .
however , I will you say a something .
if we the which dépendants of the assistance social , they not will more the in from .
Mr. . shares is come here .
I not think not have was never of agreed with Roy shares , but this time - this , I him give reason of be come .
the Prime Minister of the Manitoba the accompagnait and that of the leaders of the Opposition and of the delegations of farmers .
he not has not was well treaty .
the government not has not " a priority very high to their concerns .
we have listened the speech that the Minister of the Finance has fact yesterday ; he not has not a only time mentioned the agriculture , and this , a week after their visit .
! ! yes , this is important , but in the speech of the Minister of the Finance , this not is not also important that that .
he said : " I have 90 billion of $ to spending , I much of forward .
can - be will - I you to a small reduction of taxes and we will repay a little the debt . "
honourable senators , the ACRA is difficulty designed .
we know that this program not works not ; not are therefore not of cutting someone something who not will not .
débarrassons - we - in and have the by someone something who works .
this program was supposed operate to the spring .
we are now in fall .
the farmers of the Saskatchewan must very soon the prepare for the spring .
the government has ' this program on at to the spring , the farmers have fact their ask and they expect always the money .
this not is not as that that be airport to a emergency .
even a time that this debate will took end , I hope that we able the continue under a form or a other until to this that we réussissions to find a solution able of solve to the least few - each of the problems .
we can probably work more together in our institution that in not any what other institution policy to the Canada because that we are here for long , the health by .
we , of this side - this of the Senate , know this that the be must to , and this that the be fact now not been not .
we welcome our colleagues of in opposite to to carefully this that fact their government .
we you prions of ask to your Prime Minister of visit the provinces of the Prairies and of take the time of listen this that the farmers and the representatives of the municipalities and of the governments provincial have to say , because that they are more close of the public .
they the concern of their communities .
they will can - be then completely of agreed with we for say that he there has a situation of emergency in the west of the Canada and that he must there be .
the hon. Herbert O . Sparrow :
honourable senators , I like of first thank and even congratulate the senators who members to the Committee of the agriculture to about of the Position that they have advanced to the regard of the world agricultural to the over of the year last , and certainly before .
the senators Spivak , Andreychuk , Gustafson , Hays and Fairbairn have all contributed of way important to to understand to the government and to all the Canadians the crisis that facing the industry agricultural to the Canada , and more particularly in Saskatchewan , to the Manitoba and in Alberta .
let - I of the congratulate , because he not there will can - be not many of other choirs in my intervention .
I not know not too this who the on when we we of the debates of emergency .
I know to who the message is advocates , but the debate not in remains not least important .
that a dicton , he not must not try of cutting this who been well .
this system not been not of the all .
enough , this is enough .
we have heard speak of plans for to this or that and of amendment of documented .
nothing not the on , for that the farmers the acheminent to the bankrupt .
when the problem has surgi , in November of the year last , a program has was proposed .
the Senator Carstairs said that all the parties the are heard and that he there has had cooperation with the organizations agricultural and the governments .
he there has indeed had of the consultation .
he seemed heard that the funds of the program ACRA would paid very earlier in the new year .
that not the is not product .
the Senator Carstairs said that all the world has coopéré .
this is false .
I have attended to of the meetings with the representatives of the Department of the Agriculture , which the Minister .
I believe that the program , such that he has was proposed , was excellent and would well market .
when he has finally was record public , with the documented of the ACRA , he is became obvious that the program not marcherait not .
he is all also obvious today today that he not has not market and that he not marchera not .
when it has seen how the system the apply to the level of the and and where would the money , it has from the support .
not a only organization agricultural of the Western - I not cannot say this who the on in the East - not does the program ACRA .
the governments provincial not have not of their agreed .
the money was be paid to the beginning of the year .
be has criticized to the governments provincial of not not participate .
be has said that the Saskatchewan contain of sign the agreed , but the province has débloqué his 200 million of $ and the has ' in contingency as January and February 99 . her not has received the agreed for signing that in June .
that was the Department federal ?
why the government federal with - he as of time to send a agreed ?
the money of the government of the Saskatchewan , be 200 million of $ , must be paid on a basic of sharing of the costs .
the he not the is not , this is that the money of the government federal not is not that .
the time is crucial for the community agricultural .
be can well speak of programs to long term .
this not was not the months last or he there has six months .
tackling - we to the crisis .
at the money in the hands of the farmers .
be about of funds deprive .
yes , he must of the funds deprive , but be can save well of the it family in bounds of the funds who have already was " .
those who not are not to the aware of the problems are often what will the office of the program .
they want know if this is a assistance in a only time or if it will always in place .
he is possible that it be always necessary .
if we not can provide the necessary , we must the say frankly to the farmers Canadian and the avertir that he not there will more no grant .
that they the seek dignement .
giving - their the money and say - their that this is last , but let - the the lead to of other activities in the community with dignity , without supplier or quêter , without die of hunger , without think to the suicide .
all that the product now .
he must look the things in opposite .
we not asking not for how of time the benefits of Old will paid .
we not pass not to the people seniors of the benefits of Old for a year or two for then the their withdraw .
however , in the case of the community agricultural , reach extremely important of our society , we we asking the he want still of the money the year next .
want - we a industry agricultural to the Canada ?
he must we decide .
we are on the point of abandon to all these systems on the scene international .
all the sectors affected found , them also , very soon of the problems .
that not fact no doubt .
, this time - that , we not will more in legislation of acuity to our needs food .
this is the aspect crucial of the problem .
if we abandonnons the farmers of the Western , if we let the market international impose his rules , he the in will for say that we should also abandon the farmers of the Quebec and those of the Ontario .
then , he not we will more that to import the substantially food .
for of the years , I have across the country for speak of the conservation of the soil , of the would of the firm é in reason of the erosion and of the destruction of the been arable .
I the have fact , because that , in as that nation , we must power acuity to our needs food .
this is the objective that is the community European .
it underscored for power acuity to his needs .
the Canada states that he can always import of the products , but that not is not the solution .
we must be in legislation of acuity to our needs food .
I like that the hon. Senator Carstairs be here .
it has mentioned to what point he is difficult of as the documented of the ACRA .
it had reason .
he there has 45 or 47 pages of instructions who follows how as a accompany of seven pages .
the Senator Carstairs has said that we have should would of the students for help the farmers to as their documented .
the Department of the Agriculture has provided of the assistance ; of the officials are gone in the west of the Canada for explain how as the documented of the ACRA .
why not have - they not simply designed a accompany who not is not involved ?
not , they have favourite spending of the thousands of $ for explain this that he was to of these 47 pages .
these documented not have not was forwarded before March or April and they not have not was diffusés widely .
the officials of the Department of the Agriculture me have said that I could obtain the accompany on Internet .
not are - they never gone visit in Saskatchewan the hailed agricultural in difficulty ?
how were - we then on Internet ?
I not have not could obtain of accompany .
finally , the office of the Department of the Agriculture of my community has received two documented in May .
be in has fact of the photocopies who have was with to our clause .
we discussing now of this who not go not rond in the sector agricultural .
be we said that the farmers inefficient not have not their place .
the Minister said that if someone a not so not to gain his life in this sector , he should in out .
this is that a option , but our farmers not are not inefficient .
we we are débarrassés of those who were inefficient he there has 20 or 30 years .
I have already said that and I the as still today today .
as the Senator Spivak the knows , if we continue of we wiser of those that we by inefficient , he not will that a only farmer .
we examine then that he is him also inefficient and we we débarrasserons of him .
of major companies of and agricultural will then in place , they will fully into , and the farmers will all lost .
in Saskatchewan , if nothing not change , in 20 years , he will two major cities , those of Saskatoon and of Regina .
he not will more of communities rural .
of the small cities have already M and , if nothing not change , he not in will more no .
what such of province , what such of country would that the produce ?
this are that the problems that we must to .
of such want that the Prime Minister the or in Saskatchewan for see of visu the situation .
he not has not to the to .
all they of people the have already fact .
this not will however not sufficient .
the message just surely of , .
today today , the Leader of the government to the Senate not has up of from this message .
I regret that he not be more here ; he not includes can - be not the situation .
he there has a problem , and be the there attack in préconisant the much .
be not has of say : " candidates will to this , be will to that . "
in pending , the problem perdure .
be about of the cooperation of the provinces .
the money that the provinces have agreed of would to the farmers is that - he enough of the distribute .
the Minister of the Agriculture not touch not of say that he there has many of money in the CSRN .
this is a program which help as the government federal that the farmers .
that the data of the months of August , who are the past that we are on the CSRN , 22 . farmers on 58 . nor of least of 2 8,700 $ in this that .
that not from not the Minister of say that he there has many of money in the CSRN .
for those who are to the on of the crumbling , he not there not of money .
he not there has nothing for them .
, the 20 October , 6 800 farmers had from a payment in the framework of the program ACRA .
however , they not are not those which we we Hadood .
we we Hadood des30 . farmers who will ruinés .
I using this figure since a year now .
or well we goes completely these 30 . farmers , or well we goes the young farmers who should take the is of the more old .
I urge the Leader of the government to the Senate to to this message to the government .
the program that the organizations agricultural formerly not is not , who has was ' in implement .
this is why they not the s not .
be we said that few ajustements there will Regional .
he is easy of amend the program .
we could ask simply that he be eliminated and replaced by a new .
this would well , except that he would expect still a year .
I not to not that .
modifions the program in place and versons the money to the farmers .
he there has a billion of $ .
versons - the to the farmers .
we we inquiéterons after that of find of the funds deprive the he in must .
allow the farmers to the taken with of the difficulties .
the hon. Ron Ghitter :
honourable senators , all of first , I wish to thank His Hon. the Speaker of have for the held of our debate .
this is a debate important .
I for all those who have took the speak until to now .
not knowing nothing of the life in a and agricultural , I have many learned this after - afternoon .
the intervention of the Senator Sparrow has was excellent .
he and of other also have said many of the things that I wanted say .
I rise this night to as of citadin , but of Albertan , therefore , someone a for who the debate at a whatever a little different .
as the has said the Senator Andreychuk , he must understand that this who is good for the Ontario not is not necessarily good for the Alberta or the Saskatchewan . - contexts economic and demographics are different .
the people are different .
the closest of the markets not is not the even not more in these provinces .
by therefore , that given of the figures heard today today , be not can not say that this who is good for the Canada will necessarily vibrer a chord sensitive in Saskatchewan or to the Manitoba , where they not have not the resources , the public , the force economic or the power of the Alberta when he the is of come in assistance to the farmers .
be can to say to little close this that the be to to the figures .
I not have not the intention of me start in of the over of figures .
we have all seen these figures .
if we want to implement useful , he must of first answer to few questions fundamental .
all the world here will : " Welfare course that yes ! "
however , he there has of the regions to the Canada , in particular in Alberta , who seem would that the time of the firm é is to his end .
he is easy of romancer the firm é .
he is easy of speak of the point of view of the community .
the senators Tkachuk , Spivak and Sparrow have spoke of the importance of the firm é for our communities .
they have spoke of the sense that it creates in the people .
they have spoke of the sense of closest and of affiliation to the community that be not has not in city .
they have spoke of the contribution if important of the firm é to the manipulation and to the culture of our country .
the Senator Spivak has said that the firm é was to the Alberta and to the Prairies this that the language can represent for the Quebec , this that the Forestry are for the British - British and this that the fisheries are for the Canadians of the Atlantic .
his comparaisons are all to fact them .
it will right to the heart of the existence and of the perpétuation of all this who we any , to we who come of the Prairies .
when someone a ask if the firm é has still his place to the era of the globalization , of the major companies and of the oriented , I say yes .
the firm é has still a place very important .
it fact part integral of the fabric social of our country .
it is if important that we not can not the let people and losing and someone something of if profoundly enraciné in our society .
if we recognize the importance of ensure the survival of the communities rural of our country , little any this that the firm é can represent for various people , it has need of a something .
as any business , that this be in the sector of the fisheries or in the sector pétrolier and Chronicle , he must a something for survive in Affairs .
all the people of Affairs you will that this something , this is the stability .
if a business not has not of stability , of predictability or a sense of the planning who him give a idea of this who the what the year next , it will always in difficulty .
it will always in the uncertainty and not in will never of go ask of the assistance to the bank .
without stability , be seems always in are of mendier .
I believe that , since all the years that I am in policy , the farmers not have never bénéficié of no stability .
as the has said the Senator Taylor , he there has had in Alberta of the programs who have fonctionné .
he there has had a basic assured and a depend of security are the farmers have could approach for any the bad time and all the other things with which they must tragic .
however , they not have never had the stability who their would for of planned and of continue to we provide the products who are so important and asset for we .
of the stakeholders have spoke today today of revisiter the question constitutional .
the Leader of the government to the Senate has said that the provinces must to someone something .
we have heard that so often .
be we said that this is their fault .
I could réciter to the senators a list that of the members provincial of the Manitoba have called when they have presented their representations to the Committee Standing of the agriculture and of the agroalimentaire of the House of the Commons .
he the is of two pages of programs which the government federal the is from and of cuts made to of the programs with the agriculture , and I hear say today today that the provinces seek of the funds .
the poor small province of the Saskatchewan withdrew of the money of the assistance to the farmers .
the government of the Saskatchewan not has not the means of provide of the assistance to the farmers , then the government federal said that the Saskatchewan is supposed help 40 per of the program of assistance and that as it not the has not fact , the government federal not has not to to what that this be .
this is of the dérobade .
this is unacceptable .
he is unacceptable that the leaders political , provincial or federal , say that that not is not their responsibility .
this is the responsibility of all the world .
while that we garbage a senior of $ here and that , the life agricultural in this country will in the amenuisant and the crisis continues .
of more in more of hailed are saisies , of more in more of hailed by and of more in more of young the in will .
all the things that we have heard today today are hands and ingenuity .
they the produced in our country .
the people speak vaguement of the problem , they not the there attack not really .
they not want not the start in a War of the figures .
that not denying nothing .
we have need of a government who strictly over - before of the farmers and their move a plan to long term for their ensure the stability for that he working with the provinces .
honourable senators , this not is not new .
that not date not of yesterday .
in the years 70 , I was part of the government albertain and this was the even such of discussions , the even sense .
of way general , be was for responsible the government federal or such human .
and in the intervalle , he there has of least in least of farmers .
the problems have was exacerbés , and we is waist in a crisis .
I believe that we we ourselves in a situation very serious to the Canada rural , particularly in the Prairies .
he not enough more that the Prime Minister somatotropin the first ministers in them in their saying : " Nobody you inquiétez not , a other Committee fixera the figures . "
he is can - be too later .
he would of emergency adopt of the measures ponctuelles , the time that of the plans to long term see the day .
unfortunately , nothing not is fact in this sense .
be the somatotropin the passing and be the book to a battle of figures .
human not just to of the solutions for ensure the stability of this industry .
if this is this that he must to , will of the before with that .
yesterday , Mr. Martin not has even not talked the situation agricultural when he spoke of the forecasts financial and of this that he understandable of to with the itself - saying surplus .
that in is - he in their case ?
why not about - we not of agriculture ?
why rejetons - we always the responsibility on someone a of other and not do - we nothing for correct the situation ?
honourable senators , he is time of s a climate of stability .
the farmers the deserve .
if we believe really to the importance of the community deals , we must then to someone something for him come in assistance .
he is time of stop of speak .
he is time of begin to to evidence of leadership .
he is time of to a some stability to the farmers of the Canada .
the hon. Joyce Fairbairn :
honourable senators I thank also the Speaker of have agreed that he the was that of a about the prêtant to a debate of emergency and I thank my friend the Senator Gustafson of have seen to this that he be issue .
this not is not a debate to the about of the statistics .
this is a debate regarding the difficulties which are opposite today today the special , the families and the children and to on the prospects of future .
he there of the prospects of future on the plans of the stability in the sector agricultural and of the opportunities on the markets world .
I have listened all the speakers .
all have talked with more or least of effect the problem and the factors who we Subcommittee here this after - afternoon for speak of the farmers .
I have in particular listened with bidding the intervention of the Senator Gustafson .
this is far of be the first time that I " the Senator Gustafson .
I have the privilege of sit to the Committee Senate of the agriculture , that he behind with many of accuracy and of heart .
for those of between you who not understand not the operating Economy of the Senate , this is a place where of the people partageant of the points of view political different can the respect and the to of the friends that they garderont long .
these people can also share and shared indeed of deep concerns regarding of the problems who archivists the life and the well - be of the citizens , what that be the place where they live to the country .
this is without doubt that a of the points strong the least well what of the Senate of the Canada .
honourable senators , no Canadian of the west of the Canada , particularly those of the major sectors agricultural of this region , not can ignore the pain and the insécurité raised by the people of the communities and of the families agricultural and of the small cities rural and of all those who trying of make of the Affairs in these places by time durs , who must with the reprehensibly of température , the floods , the drought , the diseases and the pressure of the trade international who there the further of the price of the best products of the world opposite to the granting massive of grants in of other country .
the Committee of the agriculture has heard of the evidence and of the stories in from of all the sectors of this industry then that he working to the preparedness of a report to the intention of the government on the from that the Canada should would to the next negotiations on the trade outside who the will to Miami .
our report , entitled : " Position seaway to follow :
the priorities for the agriculture Canadian and the NRTEE of the millennium " , referme of important recommendations in view of the next negotiations who must be businesses more later to the over of the months .
but the more important is that he has was of to each of between we of hear speak of the difficulties and of the opportunities of the sector , when we were on the ground , in the Western Canadian , - not not in the wards of meeting of the committees here , to Ottawa , but in our own communities , in our own provinces .
we have listened the public .
we have at right in the be of those who are of serious difficulties in reason of circumstances that they not ' absolutely not .
, the over of the months onslaught , I have visited all the provinces of the Western .
I me am entretenue with a great number of operators agricultural - sometimes in company of colleagues , sometimes only , including in the south - west of the Alberta which I am outcome .
a something is some , and this is that in Saskatchewan , he has at was question of the damage occur by the 1,100 on the Lands agricultural of the south - is of the province , and of the south - west of the Manitoba also .
I have spoke to of the farmers who the there are an to two time for ensemencer their Lands , for see the soft ruiner their efforts .
these people have of very serious difficulties financial .
the crop will inexistante , and the jobs are introuvables .
some senators well deteriorated in the comfort douillet of this chamber not the will not that that the fact of would a land , that the - this " or not , removes these farmers of the right of what the allowances of the well - be social ; these people the are how they will to for acuity to the needs of their family .
of the senators of all the has have met the week last the members of delegations of the Saskatchewan and of the Manitoba , attack to Ottawa directing of the financements transitoires for help the farmers to extension the next years to the across which he is to hope that , during of the negotiations trade , the Senators of the reason prévaudra , of even that the good will and the bidding .
they we have said to what point the Program of assistance in case of disaster linked to the income agricultural not give not the results was by the government federal and by his partners of the governments provincial .
I like identify some of the people who are attack here the week last .
they not are that a part of the delegation .
we have heard Leon Lueke , of the Association of the producers of porc of the Saskatchewan ; Albert Wagner , of the Pro - West Rally Group ; Noreen Johns , a woman passionnée and profoundly concern , of the Saskatchewan Women' s Agricultural Network ; Don Dewar , of the Keystone Agricultural Canola ; Goerge Groeneveld , of Agricore ; Convervatives Motherall , of the Association of the municipalities of the Manitoba , who rest usually to the gap of this such of issues , but as the small cities are of the difficulties , the major cities come to the are .
we have spoke to Clay Serby , Minister of the Affairs municipal , of the Preservation and of the elected of the Saskatchewan ; to Duane Lingenfelter , vice - Prime Minister and Minister of the Agriculture ; and to Ms Donna Harpauer , MP of the Saskatchewan Party .
of the Manitoba , we have spoke to the Leader of the Party Liberal , Jon Gerrard , who is a old friend since the time where he sitting as member to the House of the Commons .
he is clear that we , who must speak to the behalf of this region here , not should not to the focus only on the War of figures which have fact the subject the discussions who the are held the week last .
we not must not we let distract of this who is really important , this is - to - say all to in Bill for help the farmers in difficulty .
honourable senators , I believe that we will a response , and that we the will very soon , this who we will of amend the programs in effect , of débloquer of the funds , of to that of the point of view of the farmers who have said that the amount of 900 . $ was appreciate , but that he not would not enough soon and that he not was not " of the way the more useful .
we must respond to that , honourable senators , and I am some that we will the to .
I think that of the ajustements , of the changes and of the commitments will necessary for that the programs working .
be the is many asked today today if someone a the concern of the problem .
we must we ask if the country is became unresponsive to the past and to the this to the point of ignore this who the on , not in the as in view , not to the television all the night , not in the great centres urban , but in some of the more major favourably of our country that we not échangerions for nothing to the world .
is why we not can never abandon our farmers .
yes , we we sentons really responsible .
in the world of today today , we know that the agriculture is a of the industries the more fragiles and that he there has emergency .
I the have said , the Minister of the Agriculture will to of the changes very quickly because , honourable senators , we not want not that disparaisse this way of life who has was described today today .
we want the preserve .
we want multiplying the opportunities for the farmers , not for the deadly .
we want strengthen the links between the communities rural because they are the soul of our regions and of our country .
I just of a wonderful small city who the Order on .
I the like many , but I like also the small cities who are blue in the areas rural who the around and which it is his force - of the cities as Coaldale , Picture Butte , Stirling , Taber , Warner , Raymond , Magrath , Cardston , Stand Off , in the contingency of the Gens - Edward - Sang , and Malden MacLeod , where so of things recall the history of the RCMP , and in the mountains , over - beyond of the cols , Pincher Creek , and Brocket in the contingency of the Short .
this are the coin of the Oath agricultural on this land which I am outcome and where my great - mother and my great - father were pioneers .
he worth the only of the stop sometimes for think to this that was the Canada that - there to the beginning of the century .
he not there had not of buildings or of plants .
he there had of the it and of the people boldest came by grandchildren groups of all the across of the world .
the family of my mother is came of the cratère of poussière of the producers , looking to improve the fate , and the is Anzac , Senator Gustafson , close of North She , in Saskatchewan , where my mother is born .
this is the basic of our country .
today today , be a century more later , we can bring , through to the Technology and to the technology , but , to the further , despite the disappear , the people of these small cities held really to see their similar , to their speak and to the listen .
this is to his risks and peril that the giving , who the represents to the within of a legislature legislative , where that this be to the Canada .
in the oubliant , be risk of Koreas the unity of our country .
the people held to be related .
little any the glory that or the Technology , it not is hardly the link between the people .
as I the have said to the beginning , honourable senators , the debate of this night relates really on the people .
despite the scepticisme of some of my opposite - to - opposite and of my colleagues , I believe firmly that the people must have the first consideration and the priority of the government and of the Prime Minister .
the government and the Prime Minister move .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , before that we not agreement the hon. Senator Gustafson , I to make that the Rules not said nothing of this who the on to 18 p.m. in the framework of a debate of emergency .
what that he in be , I have felt that the sénat otherwise that I not me concern not of the clock and I not have therefore not interrompu the hon. Senator Fairbairn .
I i that you souhaitez that I not me concern not of the hour ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the hon. Leonard J . Gustafson :
honourable senators , I be short .
I to all of first thank His Hon. of have for the held of this debate .
I think that this is a decision admirable .
I to also thank the senators of the two sides .
this is a day where I am proud of the Senate because I think that we start to chamber the work who should be fact in this chamber .
as of the stakeholders of the two sides the have indicated , our community agricultural is with to a very serious problem .
he there has had of the misunderstandings , but the members of the Committee of the agriculture know , and I further until that , that the government not was not totally to blame in the Presented of the program ACRA .
except mistake , this is to the Federation of the agriculture that be must , in fact , this program .
be the has ' in place on the time for to opposite to the problem in the sector of the porc .
the productions the vendaient to Torquay , in Saskatchewan , 10 $ Room .
however , that not has not fonctionné for the rest of the Canada and for the céréaliers .
this program not has absolutely not fonctionné and must therefore be changed .
honourable senators , the Saskatchewan not has not the assiette tax deal for share the up in a over of 40 - 60 .
I will be Summer .
the Alberta has the money necessary and can respect this criterion .
it is pleased of the to and of pay more .
the farmers Albertans they more , but that so he then in Saskatchewan ?
of more , he has was question of the neglect of the government provincial .
he the has was .
he has balanced the budget to the backs of the farmers .
he has used our Payments to the as of the program RARB .
the Alberta has affected 58 . $ by farmer to the over of the last year where the Payments to the as of the RARB have was paid , the Manitoba 43 . $ and for my on , I have received a up of 320 $ for my and agricultural .
anyone said that that not will not of consequences has wrong .
we about now of mistakes took by the past , and we not can not the let the repeat .
the agriculture is a industry important for the Canada .
my great - father the is established in Saskatchewan in 1905 .
they not have all simply not the money for the pay .
we must take some decisions and , as the has said the Senator Sparrow , they must be taken quickly , because that the period of ensemencement what soon .
when be the are with of the farmers and of the groups agricultural , that say - they ?
they are this that they should to now .
the question is of know how of farmers will ensemencer .
the situation is very démoralisante .
that its to only the fuel necessary for expédier the crop .
this scene the as to the broadens .
the potato of some farmers are gelées .
they get 88 cents for of the Wheat gelé .
of the farmers receive 2,05 $ for a bushel of Wheat durum , then that their counterparts American are amorphous of in obtain 5,50 $ the bushel .
how will - they survive ?
not , they not the will not .
a of the great problems who exist now in the world , this is that the country who have need of the substantially food not have not of money .
, a time , the Canada had of the further with of Wheat who quittaient Vancouver for the to in Russia , then that they not had even never was made .
they were simply forwarded that - there , and the Russes achetaient this Wheat .
today today , the Russia not has more a dime .
it not has not of money for buy of the Wheat .
the Minister of the Agriculture of the Russia has appeared before the Committee Senate and we the has said outright .
I could appoint of other country in the even situation .
the problem is world .
I hope that be will evidence of sense common to the meetings to Miami , who débuteront the 29 November and the will until to the 4 December , for attempt of with this problem world .
the more important , this is that the government and the Parliament of the Canada the roles of this problem world very important .
we know all of the country who not have not the means of buy of the food , but who would happy of eat the they disposaient of these food .
he the is of a serious problem .
he is very sad that , with the resources and the machinerie necessary for produce as never before , we not are not enough of good sense policy for esteem a world who has hunger .
human not so to understand that .
a sure number of senators have quoted of the figures .
take by example the rye .
I am teetotaliste , but I will to this that collected the taxes on the whisky to basic of rye : 79 cents the bushel .
he there has also the barley , the Wheat , and cetera .
is - this important for the Canada ?
goes the is , that I .
I for the senators attendance here today today .
each of we has a role to play .
we must build a better Canada , and we will the to .
for complete , honourable senators , I give notice that tomorrow , the Thursday 4 November 99 , I move :
that the Senate recommends to the government of the Canada of to immediately 1.3 billion of $ to the farmers of the Western , as the have asked the first ministers of this region .
this assistance should can to the farmers by the through of the Board Canadian of the Wheat , under form of a payment to the acre .
the Hon. the Speaker :
hon. Senator Gustafson , I have the regret of you inform that I not can not accept a notice of motion to this time - this , except the he there has consent unanimous .
the hon. Eymard G . Corbin :
not have - we not suspended the Senate ?
he the is of a debate Special who not allows the Presented of no motion .
the Hon. the Speaker :
I not can accept a notice of motion that if the Senator Gustafson ask the consent unanimous .
the hon. ë A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
we have asked the leave .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I believe that he there has of the considerations who deserve reflection .
all of first , the motion which the Senator Gustafson would give notice for of the Estimates , and I me ask if that is valid .
the Senator Gustafson :
this is a recommendation .
the Senator Hays :
of more , I believe understand that the debate of emergency the Adieu of a motion of adjournment and that , when the hon. Senator Gustafson approaches his place , the debate will adjourned .
I me about by therefore on the acceptability of a notice of motion for a debate of emergency .
the Senator Kinsella :
refusez - you the leave ?
the Senator Hays :
indeed .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the notice of motion not is not agreed .
honourable senators , he is proposed by the hon. Senator Gustafson , with the support of the Senator Cohen , that the Senate the adjourned .
, the words of the ( 61 ( 3 ) has ) of the Rules , the motion is agreed of board .
I leaving therefore the Chair for the an to 14 p.m. tomorrow .
( the Senate the adjourned to 14 p.m. tomorrow . )
debates of the Senate ( Hansard )
wondering Session , Session st ,
volume 6,401 , Issue 6
the Thursday 4 November 99
the hon. Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker
table of the Contents
' ' '
the Late Mr. AntHony Gustave Vincent
tribute
the Second War World
the 50 - fifth anniversary of the battle of the Gulf of the St. - Lawrence
the Court Supreme
the appointment of the hon. Beverley McLachlin to the as of Justice in Leader
the day of the Souvenir
the Late of Greg Moore
tribute
the Jour of the Souvenir
the Second War World
the 50 - fifth anniversary of the battle of the Gulf of the St. - Lawrence
the Court Supreme
the appointment of the hon. Beverley McLachlin to the as of Justice in Leader
his closure possible by the government summer
Affairs routine
the adjournment
the Act on the Defence national Position Act on the identification by the fingerprints génétiques - Code criminal
bill of bill Amend - First Reading
the Code criminal
bill of bill Amend - First Reading
the Association Parliamentary Canadian of the NATO
the situation of the aboriginal and their future
notice of inquiry
PERIOD PERIOD question
the Defence national
the Alternative of the helicopters Sea King
the possible of transfer the investigation on the accidents to the Board of the security of the transport
the agriculture and the agroalimentaire
the possible of a funds of transition for the farmers who wish change of profession
the ask of a program of - of the farmers on their Lands
the Program of assistance in case of disaster linked to the income agricultural - - allowance of funds additional - Request of confusion of the statement of the Minister
the ask of assistance financial in favour of the déshydrateurs of luzerne
the fisheries and the Oceans
the provinces marine - Position decision of the Court Supreme confirmant the rights of fishing aboriginal - - effects on the economy local
the possible of a further of transition for the fishermen be change of profession
order DAY THE
the business of the Senate
bill of bill on the protection of the information personal and the documents electronic
second Reading - Adjourned of the debate
the Act on the stopped judicial
bill of bill Amend - Second Reading - Adjourned of the debate
the Committee of selection
Adopted of the fourth report
the Canadians eminent and their role to the Kingdom - U
inquiry - Adjourned of the debate
Affairs foreign
Authorized to the Committee of clerical of the services
the SENATE
the Thursday 4 November 99
the Senate is met to 14 p.m. , the Speaker the to the Chair .
prayers .
the Late Mr. Anthony Gustave Vincent
tribute
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I not have learned that yesterday the Late of the former ambassador Anthony Vincent .
I know that several honourable senators the have known .
Mr. . Vincent is unborn in England .
he has debated his studies to the States - United and he is was in this who the was then the Department of the Affairs External , in as that diplomat .
he has accomplished a career remarkable who the has led in the world around , his past affectations to was the Spain and Andorre , where he was our ambassador .
he has also was our senior - Commissioner to the Bangladesh and our ambassador in Burma .
he has assistant in the missions Canadian to Position Hague and to New Delhi .
but this is to the time where he has was our ambassador to the Peru that he is became a heroes .
in 1996 , Mr. Vincent has played a role majeur during of the taken of treat to the residence of the ambassador of the Japan to Lima .
we believe that his actions have for of save several lives .
he has received the Tarnopolsky of the service meritorious of the Gouverneure general for his contribution extraordinary to the resolution of this crisis .
he was a heroes bienveillant and modest and a official esteemed of the Canada .
he has before of the role important that the Canada can play in the - of a world more stable and better .
honourable senators , I like me join to the very hon. Prime Minister and to the Minister of the Affairs foreign for to our sympathy to the family Mr. Vincent , including to the wife Lucie and to his daughter Alexandra .
the Second War World
the 50 - fifth anniversary of the battle of the Gulf of the St. - Lawrence
the hon. J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , I like today today to tribute to all the Canadians , those who live still and those who we have barely , who have served our country under the flag .
I to also address a thank very Special to the Canadians who used now to the abroad in the framework of missions of - of the peace .
this after - afternoon , I wish to speak specifically of the battle of the Gulf of the St. - Lawrence , this relates of water who offer of very Gallery panoramas to the Quebec , to the New - Brunswick , in the Island - Edward - Prince - Edward , in Nova - Nova , to Newfoundland - Newfoundland and to the Labrador .
this is a seaway navigable to the within of the Canada to the hour current , and of many Canadians can think that that has always was the case , but in 1942 , this are the under - submarines of the Germany Nazi who there régnaient in with .
this morning , under the auspices of our bienveillant Speaker , we have attended to a ceremony in this chamber for writings the battle of the Gulf of the St. - Lawrence of 1942 to 1944 .
for the pocket , well heard , only two ships have was perdus after 1942 , the two in 1944 , and he the is therefore of the 50 - fifth anniversary , but for the most of between we who are can - be better the history other , the battle of the Gulf the is déroulée , in fact , in 1942 .
honourable senators , the ceremony of this morning , Pritchard by His Excellency the Gouverneure general of the Canada , was warm and appropriate and we had among we a great number of submarines of the Shipping Shipping Canadian who have fought in these waters for defend our country .
the under - submarines German have found that the convoys who traversaient the Atlantic were relatively well protected in 1942 , to the on of the into in War of the Americans and they have then decided of the deal to the Ways navigables coastal of the America of the North for find of the them more easy during this that the quick of the under - submarines German appelaient " the season of hunting American " or " the great time " .
honourable senators , the under - submarines German have coulé in six months the long of the Coast of the America of the North of the ships representative 2.5 million of tonnes of goods .
the seven first months of 1942 have almost cost the War to the Alliés .
be said that the under - submarines German had so the choice of the Targets that they not rentraient to the port that because that they not had more of torpilles .
then that the battle of the Atlantic was divisive in high sea , the under - submarines German have succeeded to the stickhandler in the Gulf of the St. - Lawrence , often in view of the coasts , to the research of ships old without escorte .
in May 1942 , the battle of the Gulf innocently .
the U - boot German U - 553 was tracked to the broad of the Cape by then that he accomplissait his first aliens .
, the over of the five months who turbulent , 21 further were be coulés and few 200 submarines killed .
in 1944 , two ships of War were coulés and someone 95 people driving .
the Prime , this was the ship to steamship Nicoya - the Prime at coulé in the waters domestic of the Canada by , I add , of the forces hostile since the War of 1812 .
unfortunately , this not was not be the last .
the HMCS Racoon , a bâtiment armé , was coulé by the U - boot U - 165 the 6 September 1942 , and the corvette HMCS Charlottetown by the U - boot U - 517 only five days more later .
the 14 October , this was the tragedy for the ferry Caribou , who Urban the Liaison between the part continentale of the Canada and Newfoundland - Newfoundland .
the Hon. the Speaker :
Senator Forrestall , I regret of duty you interrupt , but the period of three minutes that you substantially for to your statement has expired .
the Senator Forrestall :
I am course that the honourable senators understand that this are of the Canadians are we which tribute today today .
the Court Supreme
the appointment of the hon. Beverley McLachlin to the as of Justice in Leader
the hon. Joan Fraser :
honourable senators , I like to few remarks to the about of the announcement made yesterday that which the next Justice in Leader of the Court Supreme of the Canada will Ms the Justice Beverley McLaghlin .
I think that all the Canadians the are am of this new and I believe that the women were particularly remplies of wear - the expression not is not too strong - to the announcement of his appointment .
this is the first woman to with the as of Justice in Leader of our Court Supreme .
this who we pleased particularly , this is that it not has not was appointed to this as because that this was a woman , but in reason of the excellence .
of the Senators :
hear !
the Senator Fraser :
this is a CIBC quintessencielle .
can - be be more Canadian that someone a who is unborn to Pincher Creek , in Alberta ?
it has was admise to the Society albertain in 1969 and it has fact to little close all this that he is possible of to in the system legal Canadian .
it has one the right in a s private of 1969 to 1975 .
it has unequal the right to the University of the British - British of 1974 to 1981 , then , in 1981 , it has project to the there of the entirely of the correction , to the court of coincidental of Vancouver .
it not is not remains very long in there of the has .
he there has 10 years , in 1989 , it has was appointed to the Court Supreme of the Canada Mr. Mulroney , then Prime Minister - the a of the best decisions that he has taken , challenge - I say .
her the Justice McLachlin the is proved difficult to cataloguer , this who is a something rare .
he not has not was possible , even to the commentators strongly brought on the questions unhappy , of the geographic as owned to a school judicial or to a other since the announcement made yesterday .
all the world has simply could say that it was a Justice outside fine , with of a spirit an and independent , who not between well heard in no of the Each statute .
the a of the comments the more interesting that be has facts on it is , of the chairman of the Association of the Society Canadian , who has said : " her has this will Canadian of to the things , of décomposer the problems in grandchildren problems and of the to to the solve . "
well that I not am not jurist , I have should from not difficulty of years to read of the kit of jurisprudence and I must say that , in as that former journalist , I me extasie also in wide that we have a Justice in Leader who on the good tradition of write of the judgments of a way simple and clear .
he is important for the citizens of our country of power understand this that their said the Court Supreme and , when Ms the Justice McLachlin wrote , he not fact no doubt that be includes this that it said and why .
it has also said recently before the Society Canadian , and I quote :
the Parliament , with his best tools of maltreatment of the facts , with a better access to the opinions , to the information , is the place the more appropriate for the taken of decisions of nature policy , " over sense highest " .
this is very important , I in am some .
the day of the Souvenir
the hon. Norman K . Atkins :
honourable senators , as you the know , of the ceremonies will place the 11 November next for to tribute to our former Veterans and other personal military .
we hope that the Canada and the world around comparable of a peace and of a freedom provisions to the over of the century who starts .
I like today today to tribute to all these Canadians who have fact of great with to the behalf of the freedom .
I have I - even some links with the First War World .
my father has fact part of the body expéditionnaire Canadian , the 46e Canadian of the Batterie of the Queen , who has took on to the mine battle of the plateau of Vimy , who has had e 9 April 1917 .
of more , to the University graduated where I have examined , he there had a residence on the campuses , the home Willett , where the people a salon who had was which the Milton Gregg Lounge , in the honour of the a of the soldiers Canadian the more what and the more basic .
Milton Gregg was the a of the 19 Canadians to the be seen Crowshoe the Red of Victoria , that he has deserved to Cambrai , in France , to the over of the week of the 28 September to the 1 October 1918 .
he is sad of think that the enough of the former Veterans of the First War World , of the Second War World and of the War of Korea the éclaircissent little to little .
of after the figures through in March last by the Department of the Affairs Veterans , he rest only 669 former Veterans of the First War World , 390 230 of the Second War World and 17 783 of the War of Korea .
he we responsibility of honour these Canadians of so that their with and their runner have always in the memory of the Canadians .
I to speak a moment of the men and of the women of the Forces Canadian who used vaillamment their country today today , that this be here to the Canada or in mission of - of the peace to the abroad .
too often , we forget of appreciation our appreciation and our gratitude to our vaillants military in service active .
they have mérité and and and time our respect and we must find of the ways of their to that we we soucions of them .
honourable senators , to all these Canadians who are always surviving and to those who are décédés , we indeed our temporal gratitude and we perpetuate their remember .
the hon. Calvin Woodrow Ruck :
honourable senators , I rise I also the speak to the opportunity of the day of the Souvenir .
I ask with that in observant the Jour of the Souvenir , you you rappeliez that we , the minorities to the Canada , have we also served our country and that we are loans to the serve still to well of the ways to the future .
we are loans to to opposite to any one to of preserve the principles democratic that example our country .
the Late of Greg Moore
tribute
the hon. Gerry Germain :
honourable senators , I rise today today the speak for to tribute to a great Canadian which we déplorons the would , Greg Moore .
I have had the honour of represent the riding of Mission - Port Moody , the country of Terry Fox , a of our great heroes Canadian , and the region of Maple Ridge , the country of several great athletes - by example Cam Neely , a great player of hockey , would lifer and Greg Moore .
the 31 October , a affreux accident the is product on a stretch of Trophy of under in California .
Greg has démarré his career of coureur no in the father , who was concessionnaire of or Chrysler , to Maple Ridge , on the Highway of Lougheed .
that the is in a coincidental that I have already represented .
, the time where I was member and Minister of the cabinet in the other House , I passais often on this road because my office not was not far .
I have seen this barking , in his young years , shepherding of the karts in the s .
I knew also the father and of other members of the family .
Greg has known the notoriété very young , aware to the sides of great Pilots as the Villeneuve , Fittipaldi , Andretti and Paul Tracy .
he has known the impose .
we were many to see in him a heroes .
many of young Canadians the indicated as such .
he was not only sympathetic and kind , but he was also always prepared to participate to the programs of promotion of the security safety in the schools and other initiatives provisions to the conduct and to his profession .
I know that all the people here revitalizing want the join to I for to to his family and to all his friends our sympathy the more sincere for the loss of this an Canadian .
the Jour of the Souvenir
the hon. Bill Rompkey :
as the Senator Forrestall and of other the have mentioned , he there has had this morning , in this chamber , a ceremony moving for the Shipping Shipping .
I would loved that a more great number of my colleagues can there attend .
the they had was here , they have left the be the be with of water , I in am sure .
I to thank the Speaker of have for that the ceremony the snapshots in this chamber and for his participation to the commémoration .
I hope that we able celebrate each year this ceremony in remember of the Shipping Shipping .
if you substantially fact campaign to Newfoundland - Newfoundland , and including in the regions rural of this province , as I the have fact , you have seen on various walls a or several of the pictures following :
most Smallwood , the Pope , the Queen , John Kennedy and a front of the Caribou .
he has sombré during the Second War World .
many of people that I knew are dead on this at .
he is became a symbol grand of the Shipping Shipping and a symbol of those who have was mobilisés and of those who are gone volunteers to their on for help to the effort of War even the they not were not the brutes .
during of the ceremony of this morning , be has celebrated these people and be has recognized their contribution to the effort of War .
honourable senators , I hope that we not manquerons not the opportunity of participate , the 11 November , to the ceremonies who the dérouleront in our regions for writings those who the are fought and who have of their life for to of this country this that he is today today .
the Second War World
the 50 - fifth anniversary of the battle of the Gulf of the St. - Lawrence
the hon. M. DeWare :
honourable senators , as the hon. Senator just of the mention , we were all invited by the Speaker to attend in this Room this morning , to 11 p.m. , to the ceremony month the 55e anniversary of the battle of the Gulf of the St. - Lawrence .
for you give a idea of the importance and of the impact of this battle historic , I like you to on of the about of the hon. George Baker , who has took on to the ceremony .
he has said :
this year , we commémorons a episode little known of the Second War World who the is own here even to the Canada .
this is the history incredible of the men and of the women who have defended our settle , our waters and our goodness in the Gulf of the St. - Lawrence , between 1942 and 1944 .
a great number of between them , there including of the members of the Marine Royal Canadian , of the Bomber Royal of the Canada , of the Shipping Shipping of the Canada and of Newfoundland - Newfoundland , of the services allies and of the Nursing Sisters Association of Canada there have left their life .
50 - five years more later , this is with pride and gratitude that we saluons these advocates and their windows dead to the combat .
these Canadians and may have fought vaillamment for the peace and the freedom .
they are dead in perpetuate their houses and their homeland against a attack direct .
of the Political innocent have canoe with them .
, because of the circumstances of the War , a great number of between them not have even not of directly for the honour .
Mr. . Baker we has also reminded this who following :
we have the duty not only of we remember of these people , but also of would their history to the generations future .
honourable senators , we have indeed this responsibility .
the ceremony who the is held today today here even to the Senate is the a of the ways which we can honour those who have in to the battle of the Gulf of the St. - Lawrence .
her the Gouverneure general , Adrienne Clarkson , was its to this opportunity .
it the is " to the former Veterans of the battle of the Gulf , of the men and of the women who have fact of the with for their country .
this event commemorative regroupait also of the families and of the friends of those who have of their life for our country .
that me has fact participants to the heart of see of the hundreds of on sitting to the gallery .
behind we the were of the cadet of the Shipping , of the air and of the they .
them also are came for the remember and for participate to this ceremony very special .
this is to our young that he will of preserve the heritage successors by our former Veterans .
he with to the Seniors in the society of encourage the new generations to the remember .
, as of parliamentarians and of Canadians who have of the memories personal of the Second War World and who have lost of the parents and of the friends to the over of this conflict , our duty to this regard is still more require .
we can including we a of this duty in including to of the events as , of the ceremony of the Souvenir of this morning .
despite a some réticence , I must say that I have had a little shame this morning of out that only 15 senators were attendance .
the former Veterans and the children have seen that about 80 seats were free .
his appointment to the number of the ninety great heroes Canadian of the 20 century
the hon. Catherine S . Callbeck :
honourable senators , he there has more of 90 years , during of the us of the version original English of the Orwell Anne ... Position House to the pignons green , be was far of think that this Orwell become the a of the his of fiction the more this of the literature Canadian , but he is indéniable that he fact now part of our identity cultural .
Anne transcende the generations and the boundaries to the Canada and across in the world .
he is surprising of think that today today , almost a century after the first publication , the young it always Anne as a model of role positive .
well course , Anne ... Position House to the pignons green is the implement of Lucy Maud Montgomery , who we has of of many other his fascinantes to the over of his career literary , there including the romans on which is based the series Emily of New Land , who is now télédiffusée in this time .
recently , in the framework of a bill sponsored about Dominion held and the Council of the Canadians , Lucy Maud Montgomery has was plants as by part of the 20 great Canadians of the 20 century .
all the people of the Island - Edward - Prince - Edward know to what point this is true and , through to the writing of Montgomery , the other can the in to that also .
l . Mr. Montgomery is a treasury literary and the people of the Island - Edward - Prince - Edward are proud that it be the a of the their .
now , we know that the other Canadians are them also proud of it .
the Court Supreme
the appointment of the hon. Beverley McLachlin to the as of Justice in Leader
the hon. é - A .
honourable senators , I to congratulate the hon. Justice Beverley McLachlin for the from to the as of Justice in Leader of the Court Supreme of the Canada .
I me am of this appointment who go in vigueurle 7 January 2000 .
he the is , as you the know , of the first woman to access to this as very prestigious in the system constitutional Canadian .
her McLachlin is a excellent jurist who has gravi all the at of the correction for , finally , become Justice in Leader of the Canada .
in effect , after have was Sudbury , then lawyer in practice privacy , it has was appointed successivement to the Court Superior of the British - British , then to the Court of call , before of to to the Court Superior to as of Justice in Leader .
in March 1989 , it was appointed to the Court Supreme of the Canada , to the age of 46 years .
it has fact his in in number of areas of the right .
be not is not without know the great place that ' today today the Charter Canadian of the rights and freedoms in our lives and the role increased of our court of last resort .
the Justice McLachlin has also received of the Doctorates Doctorates of the universities of the British - British in 1990 , of the Alberta in 1990 and of Toronto in 1995 .
I him wish all the success that it deserves well , to the summit of the power judicial , and in the contribution of the cathedral of the jurisprudence Canadian .
his closure possible by the government summer
the hon. Jean - Robert Gauthier :
honourable senators , this not is not easy of live in French in Ontario under the government of Mike Harris .
the matter of the Hospital fought is always before the courts .
we are since five months a decision on the fate of this institution of health French in Ontario .
is that today today , the government Harris the without to eliminate a other institution French , but this time in the field of the education .
he the is of the College of Leduc , the only college to to of the over in Science agri in French in Ontario .
the government Harris cause still his minority French who the battra for as this institution that this community has ' 50 years to build .
the francophones of the Ontario have the right of there , of live and of work in their language .
the is of the Ontario that a strong industry agroalimentaire that he we must to all price sauvegarder and this interpreted on by the survival of the College of Leduc .
still a time , he will traînerM. Harris and the government before the courts for obtain justice .
thief that this is require and fatigant !
Affairs routine
the adjournment
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the ( 59 ( 1 ) p.m. ) of the Rules , I move :
that , when the Senate the adjourns today today , this be to Tuesday next , the 16 November 99 , to 14 p.m. .
the Hon. the Speaker :
bill of bill Amend - First Reading
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) its the bill of bill S - 10 , Act amend the Statutes on the Defence national , the Act on the identification by the fingerprints génétiques and the Code criminal .
( the bill of bill is read a first time . )
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when read - we this bill of bill a second time ?
( on the motion of the Senator Hays , the second Reading of the bill of bill is placed to the order of the day of the Tuesday 16 November 99 . )
the Code criminal
bill of bill Amend - First Reading
the hon. Raymond J . Perrault :
honourable senators , I have the honour of to a bill of bill who had was presented during of the session before , the bill of bill S - 11 , Act amend the Code criminal to of - the coercition against a human to the regard of actions medical who are contrary to his religion or to his belief to the uniqueness inviolable of the life human .
( the bill of bill is read a first time . )
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when read - we this bill of bill a second time ?
( on the motion of the Senator Perrault , the second Reading of the bill of bill is placed to the order of the day of the Tuesday 16 November 99 . )
the Association Parliamentary Canadian of the NATO
the delegation Canadian to the meeting of the availability - commission on the future of the forces Armed , held to Ankara and Istanbul , in Ammunition - Report of the report
the hon. Bill Rompkey :
the situation of the aboriginal and their future
notice of inquiry
the hon. Aurélien Gill :
honourable senators , I give notice that , the Wednesday 17 November 99 , I call the attention of the Senate on the situation of the aboriginal to of we to of to the point and of reflect on the measures appropriate for the future .
PERIOD PERIOD question
the Defence national
the Alternative of the helicopters Sea King
the hon. J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , my question the is to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
a other Sea King had of the ennuis with the system hydraulique this week .
we know that of such ennuis into of be surviving , particularly if the be the is in the airs .
honourable senators , when the government will he start this bill ?
can - be the government instead he a way of stop our ships of helicopters a little more quickly ?
after all , we know that he must replace the equipment , and we know also that the former government was prepared to initiate the process as 1993 , before that the new not denies the program of the EH - EH .
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I thank of his question the hon. Senator Forrestall , who the concern cleansing of the operating of the helicopters Sea King .
as I the have said to the senators he there has few days , the Alternative of these aircraft remains a priority for the government , and he is to the Prime rank of the priorities of the Minister present .
the fleet of helicopters - the ch - 124 Sea King - has was livrée to the Forces Canadian in 1963 , I believe .
be the him then and be the is always to this that these aircraft be in service until in 2005 .
he there has had of the incidents .
of the problems of maintenance have surgi .
of the 41 helicopters of the beginning , 30 are always used .
be is of notice that they can play their role until to this that a other apparatus the is .
the possible of transfer the investigation on the accidents to the Board of the security of the transport
the hon. Micheal J . Forrestall :
the honourable senators not are not without know that that fact now 1 825 days that the government we has promised that he one immediately this program in implement .
the Leader of the government to the Senate is - he aware that we asking to the young men and to the young women of our Forces Armed Canadian of travel to on of a apparatus who is far of be Motor ?
the problem , this is that the aircraft are usés .
they are fatigués .
their maintenance we costs a fortune .
he must 38 p.m. of maintenance and sometimes more for to steal a helicopter for a hour .
the Minister not the makes - he not that that we at in danger the life of the members of our Forces Armed Canadian ?
the Minister is he the possible of those the responsibility of the investigation on the accidents to the military and of the transfer to the Board Canadian of the security of the transport , who would since of the years banned to these helicopters of steal ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , the hon. Senator has all to fact reason when he described the skills of the members of the Forces Armed Canadian law of the maintenance and particularly of those who the roles of the helicopters Sea King .
he agree surely with I that those - that listed among the more expérimentés to the world for this who is of this such of apparatus .
I not think not that the hon. Senator available let hear that the forces Armed could send in mission the staff in a apparatus that they not it not doing and prepared for Canada the mission .
he there has had and he continue certainly of there have of the challenges to met to the chapter of the maintenance .
when the office of life useful of a Room of equipment military is to his end , the number and the difficult of these challenges are .
that the is product and that continue of the produce .
what that he in be , that not to not say that we enverrions of the people in mission if their security and their life were in danger .
we should recognize the excellent work that the teams relating of the maintenance adequacy and that they continue of chamber .
as the hon. Senator , I hope that these helicopters will replaced quickly ; of , , he there has few days to only , the Minister me has of the insurance that that remains his priority number a and that he will in so that the matter quarrels to subject allure .
I will say to the Minister that the Senator and I - even the encourageons to with the question the more quickly possible .
the Senator Forrestall :
the Leader of the government to the Senate not has not answered to my question .
my question rest without response .
let - I of there add a track and I hope that he there will .
is the second track of my question : the Minister recognizes - he that the work pre to the Alternative of the helicopters preclude had already was accomplished when the Prime Minister present has decided of cancel the program of acquisition of the EH - EH ?
two years of work have already was accomplies .
can - we have some assurance ?
we have whereas eight years and we not can not with in more a gap of three years , because that this is criticism .
these helicopters not are not fiables .
be should the strike of shut of flight .
the Minister will he also we say this that he think of the proposal that which the monitoring of the performance of these aircraft would gift to the Board of the security of the transport and not more to the military Canadian ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , the Senator with two questions .
he ask of first if I can or not him ensure that the helicopters will replaced before eight years .
of after this that I can conclude of the about that I have liberty with the Minister , I am course that we not will not eight years before of replace the Sea King .
I like succeed to the convince that we not will not to expect still eight years before that the helicopters be replaced .
the Senator has also asked a question to the about of the investigation on the incidents from to the use of the aircraft military .
frankly , this not is not a field that I know many .
I think however that in General , the forces Armed of all the country the roles they - same of this such of activity .
this not is can - be not necessarily the case and the Senator can can - be me enlighten to this about to a time of .
what that he in be , I not can answer of way specific for the time .
the Alternative of the fleet of helicopters Sea King - Position possible of the credit - lease
the hon. Gerry Germain :
honourable senators , my question is supplementary to the questions raised by the Senator Forrestall .
he the is that I have piloté of the had of the Lord of the air and that I pilot always .
I the specific for explain this that I will ask to the Minister .
the government is in are of ask to the employees of the maintenance of to of the miracles .
I have began my career military in the maintenance before of to part of the staff Shortfalls .
this is the reason for which I know that the préposés to the maintenance are of the excellent work , but they not are not of miracle .
I have read all recently that a hour of flight of these Sea King does 30 p.m. of maintenance .
he is went until to - and that be me takes if I have wrong - Authorize the quick to not not steal the they thought that the apparatus not was not course .
when be in is record that , this is last .
how the Minister has he could the to in as that member of the cabinet ?
I believe that if a accident declared , the responsibility in incombera fully to the cabinet , particularly to the Minister of the Defence national and to the Prime Minister of the country .
I believe that he there has of the solutions , as the sublease of helicopters .
he there amount of aircraft in good of of been in the world who could be used for this service in any security .
why not optons - we not for this possible ?
when I have asked this question to the predecessor of the Leader of the government , he has answered that he in had discussed with the Prime Minister and that this solution was to the study .
I have today to on of a aircraft to four places in company of a other of our senators .
I have " a attention particular to the question of the security .
even if the Senator had was Liberal , I would " the even attention to the security .
when I was in the forces air , I have surely piloté of the had to to their on of the Liberal or today in company of Liberal , and I was all also aware of their security .
honourable senators , I please urge the Minister of study the possible of rent of the aircraft and I ask that the be me provide a response to this regard .
as I the have said , he there has of the million of helicopters .
in America of the North only , be in is to the least of the thousands .
why not routes be not ?
why people - we our military of the so ?
the way which we people our military to various other ways is also on .
why people - we of the so the quick who are to save of the lives and who , this by , it in calling their own life ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
the hon. Senator has raised good number of points and I not chercherai not to answer to each of between them .
more specifically , in this who with the helicopter Sea King , the hon. Senator has mentioned that my predecessor has had of the discussions with the Minister regarding the possible of approach to the sublease .
I not have not issue this question with the Minister .
however , I will certainly try of have a discussion similar with the Minister and I be can - be then in legislation of provide of the information more precise .
honourable senators , before of an my seat , I wish to out that the Forces Armed Canadian reflect a work remarkable , with the helicopters Sea King or all other apparatus .
they have was appuyées by the government .
, my notice , the people who are law of the maintenance of the helicopters Sea King , in more of chamber a work remarkable , not they never that a aircraft be used the they feel that he is a threat for those who the find to the on .
the préposés to the maintenance of the helicopters Sea King reflect a work remarkable in of the circumstances who , must - he the recognize , are difficult , particularly when the be with that of the fact that he the is of old aircraft .
the agriculture and the agroalimentaire
the possible of a funds of transition for the farmers who wish change of profession
the hon. Herber O . Sparrow :
honourable senators , my question the is to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
however , before of the for , I wish of new to him express my also and those of the House for have authorized the held of the discussion that we have had yesterday to the about of the crisis agricultural to the Canada .
I thank all the honourable senators of their contribution to this debate .
I have believed understand that the Minister of the Agriculture will today today a statement to the House of the Commons on the increase of the budget of the program ACRA .
I am however a little " before a section which in the Globe and Mail of today today where be reads that :
be believes also that the Minister is of create a funds interim for the farmers who decision of abandon to the agriculture and of the recycler .
I am " because that I not know no organization of farmers and no farmer to asked a such program .
that me give to think that the government trying of own the farmers to abandon the agriculture .
this not is not the objective of our very .
this that we want , this is to to the farmers of continue of grow the land , not the encourage to the leave .
when the farmers of the Saskatchewan , of the Manitoba and of the Alberta they the campaigns , the fabric social of this part of the Canada is déchiré .
he must that all the farmers and all the families of farmers remain that where they are for support the system of the elevators to grain , the system of education and the system of health .
if the section said true , I am very " .
the Leader of the government to the Senate can - he we say if the government and the Minister of the Agriculture at seriously of to a such program ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I thank the hon. Senator .
for answer to the first part of the question , I say that I not am to the aware of no discussion or of no proposal in this sense during of my talks with the Minister .
I not can therefore answer to the question of know if the idea has was proposed by a other organization .
however , as I me paid to the Senate this after - afternoon , be me has has a release of the Minister of the Agriculture and of the Agroalimentaire who s the details of the offer made by the Minister .
I have asked to my staff of me you the version bilingual of the announcement to that the senators can in take knowledge .
I that the receive under little .
if such is the good happy of the honourable senators , I their remettrai of the copies of this announcement .
the announcement not fact of or of program of buy or of other provisions of this nature .
this amount the add to the someone higher million of $ paid to the as of Payments federal annual to the farmers .
of more , of other changes to the guideline of Administration of the program are to the study .
in all case , be for that the first ministers provincial who are came to Ottawa recently for express their concerns to this regard the joindront to the government federal for to the program ACRA many more accessible .
I i that the provinces continue of adhérer to the rule current of the sharing of the costs based , who the fact on the basic of 60 / 40 in they that of these 170 million of $ deprive .
in this case - that , the funds the Gustafson stop of a other amount considerable .
the ask of a program of - of the farmers on their Lands
the hon. Leonard J . Gustafson :
honourable senators , I have a question supplementary regarding the - of the farmers on their Lands .
, the hour current , he not rest more that 2.5 per of the public Canadian in the sector of the agriculture .
he is therefore very important of the there maintain .
, the States - United , the chairman Clinton has said that he has decided of sign a such legislation because that the farmers are face to a real situation of emergency and not can not expect .
the legislation provided a amount of 8,7 billion of $ for the farmers American .
the chairman of the Syndicat national of the farmers has said that this infusion of assistance can to the difference between abandon and stay in Affairs .
the important , this is of keep the farmers in agriculture .
the Leader of the government to the Senate would - he the please of bring that to the cabinet ?
we have was happy of learn that be had took some measures for infuser more of capital in the situation .
I think that this is far of be sufficient , the of the so serious of the situation to which we do opposite .
however , the Leader could - he we ensure that he African the government to tough a program for keep the farmers in agriculture rather that of the help to the abandon ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I not have no difficulty to say that the be should to all this who is expectation possible for keep the farmers in agriculture , where they continue of to a contribution to the life and to the society Canadian as they the have fact to the over of the years .
I like simply paraphrasing a part of the release of press who just of me can .
the Minister of the Agriculture and of the Agroalimentaire said : " We will to the provinces of the associate to we , in the framework of the program ACRA , for cover 70 per of the marges negative of the producers or about of the measures imports . "
by , , the Minister of the Agriculture and of the Agroalimentaire has said that we will continue to work with the provinces and the sector agricultural for find of the ways of come in assistance to the farmers , particularly those who are the more in difficulty .
this statement said without no doubt that a commitment of the government federal there and that he is with of are important for come in assistance to those who are the more in difficulty and who into the more of have to leave their land .
I me am to this that this legislation will the effect désiré by the hon. Senator .
the Minister of the Agriculture and of the Agroalimentaire deserves of be helpfulness of be past to the action without expect a solution négociée with the provinces .
in an immediately this money in the program , the Minister and the government federal réagissent of way very direct and very active .
be i that the provinces their emboîteront the not and will to the aspire of the ACRA .
the government federal and the Minister not have however not wanted to traîner the things for a week , fifteen days , 10 days , a months and not have not whereas of have a guarantee written to this effect .
the Minister has responded immediately .
this money will improve the operating of the program .
he will can to the farmers which the needs are the more great and who into the more of leave their Lands .
the Program of assistance in case of disaster linked to the income agricultural - - allowance of funds additional - Request of confusion of the statement of the Minister
the hon. Herbert O . Sparrow :
honourable senators , the Leader to - he say that the new funds will paid before the former ?
is - this that this that he to say when he said that the things are more soon ?
the farmers not have not still received the former funds are they have right in under of the program ACRA and now , be will say that the new funds their will paid more quickly ?
I me ask if the Leader of the government to the Senate could rapporter the message following to the Minister , to know that for these new funds , we not have not really need of a other accompany of 47 pages .
we in have enough of the former ; we item someone something of more simple .
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , the government has recognized that the funds who were some in the framework of the program ACRA not were not paid enough quickly to the beneficiaries .
I have listened the excellent intervention that the Senator Carstairs has made yesterday in this House .
it has clear and in any candeur has the problems that possession the program .
the money not was not paid to the farmers in the need also quickly that the government federal and the other parties to the agreed ACRA the had wanted .
he not was not paid to the farmers also quickly that the concepteurs of the program the had wanted .
the use of these new funds will set to the same rules .
the funds are in the even garbage .
the Minister has however also announced that some changes would Regional to the program , through are he is to hope that the farmers will this money many more soon .
the hon. Leonard J . Gustafson :
honourable senators , in under of the former program , in the case of a average of three years of a farmer , the he has grêlé a year and that then the drought has sévi a or two years of on , the 70 per of this average on three years not suffiraient recognize not .
the Minister could - he to understand to his colleagues of the cabinet to what point he is important of help the farmers which the needs are the more criants ?
the they have was victims of soft or of hailed , 70 per of two years bad not riment to nothing .
this are these people who have the more suffered ; this are these people who in have the more need .
for that the program be effective , of the changes the do for to a term to these suffering .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , the problem has can - be was has .
I paraphrase to new the release .
I know if this change or a solution to the problem raised by the Senator , but he allows of believe that a assistance is scheduled for the situations that he we has pointed .
honourable senators , that he me be for of table the release .
I just of the receive in the two languages official and I will to of the copies additional for the senators who the wish .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the leave is - it granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Hon. the Speaker :
we in will of the copies and the distribuerons as that they will ready .
the ask of assistance financial in favour of the déshydrateurs of luzerne
the hon. Nicholas W . Taylor :
honourable senators , I have a question supplementary .
the Leader of the government to the Senate can - he inform the cabinet of the problem that are the déshydrateurs of luzerne of the Western , who get their potato with of the farmers ?
they are in difficulty , because they had promised to the farmers as of $ the would and they must the sell least sir .
he the is primarily of small companies , sometimes of the Cooperatives .
few dozens of between they in the west of the Canada will probably bankrupt , because the Minister of the Agriculture has determined that they were in effect of the companies and that they not were therefore not eligible to the program ACRA .
yet , if they are bankrupt , a sure number of farmers not will more sell their luzerne .
even the he the is that of very small businesses , they justified of the jobs .
since the program ACRA not is of no assistance to this regard , I hope that the Leader of the government to the Senate can bring their problem to the cabinet and know the he there a other way of the help to the over of the two or three next years and of keep open the déshydrateuses of luzerne .
after all , the farmers in have our need .
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I know and to the Senator of the comments that he has made to this about .
I me will a happy of bring his concerns to the cabinet , including to the Minister appropriate .
the fisheries and the Oceans
the provinces marine - Position decision of the Court Supreme confirmant the rights of fishing aboriginal - - effects on the economy local
the hon. Gerald J . Comeau :
honourable senators , my question relates on a about little different , be the decision that the Court Supreme has made recently in the case Marshall .
little any the way which be can consider this decision , the most of the people suitable that it will of deep impact on the life of the aboriginal and of the other Canadians of the region of the Atlantic .
in addition , the measures of Standards will of the consequences for the economy and the Finance of all the Canada .
I will mention his consequences future for the gas of the Island of Sable , the rights of cutting and the rights minerals , and and of on .
the Leader of the government to the Senate could - he say what measures and what plans of emergency are now ' in implement for to opposite to the ajustements economic and to the impact of the judgment of the Court Supreme ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , as be the knows very well , the decision Marshall has of first had for effect immediate of create a crisis in the fisheries to the Canada Atlantic .
the priority of the Minister of the Fisheries and of the government has was of try of unconventional the situation to the more soon in the hope of bring the test and of promote the held of talks between the two parties of manner to find a solution sustainable to a problem who has of the impact very serious to short term .
some stages which we have was witnesses we have all ' difficulty to the comfortable , I in am sure .
the process of negotiating to short term seems be well established .
the test seems restored and we have good hope of to current the talks .
he not can be tenure only by the fishermen of the Canada Atlantic , not more of , that by the employees of office of Vancouver .
this is all the country who must ensure the regulation , in recognition of the rights aboriginal such that définis by the Court Supreme .
I me am to this that this be a process to long term .
however , in the sectors where he must as now find a solution , including in the fisheries of the Atlantic , I think that be has fact of the excellent work and I hope that be continue in this vein .
the possible of a further of transition for the fishermen be change of profession
the hon. Gerald J . Comeau :
honourable senators , I not have not could to other that out the question that the Senator Sparrow has raised more earlier to the about of the programs of Standards who are Softwood or of the about that which of such programs would Softwood for the sector agricultural .
various sources dismiss that of the are have was for for a so of program of Standards - I not parlance not the word " buy " .
I have heard speak of 500 million of $ - I believe have indeed eight zéros after the five - who would paid only for the sector agricultural .
this is that a amount enormous .
the even such of approach is - he arisen for the fisheries - in of other words , is be of up the for of some people of the sector of the fisheries and of other sectors , this who ajoutera of other zéros to the amount - or is - this simply a rumour who about ?
I remind to the Minister that he there has now many of uncertainty in of many communities .
the fishing of Winter , a fishing very limited , will soon begin .
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I not can confirm no figure based on of the conjectures .
I would very surprised that of the figures have was advanced to this at .
a of the reasons is including that be not knows not still any the scope of the judgment Marshall - the application , his an and neither .
someone on , in the maze government , someone a échafaude can - be all they of scenarios , but I doubt that of the figures have was seriously Softwood to this at .
he is possible that a buy the matérialise to a sure at .
, about , honourable senators , I not can not confirm - well to the contrary - of the about of this such to the about of the farmers .
I not am to the aware of no program of buy of the farmers .
I not to not misleading the Senate in mistake to this regard .
however , the situation is little different in the case of the fisheries .
a program of buy is already in effect .
in fact , he there a program aboriginal of buy in the framework which be redeem of the for in some sectors of the fisheries for the back to the community aboriginal .
this program there already before the judgment Marshall , and he is to little close course that he the will under a some form .
I underscored to new with of the Senator : the situation with a challenge not only to the fishermen of the New - Brunswick or of the Nova - Nova , but to all the Canada .
order DAY THE
the business of the Senate
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I ask to the Clerk of call in Prime the second point to the order of the day , under the Order of the " Projets of bill " , to know , the second Reading of the Bill bill C - 6 .
bill of bill on the protection of the information personal and the documents electronic
second Reading - Adjourned of the debate
- honourable senators , I am happy of have the opportunity of speak to the Senate of the bill of bill C - 6 , which the as abrégé is Act on the protection of the information personal and the documents electronic .
with the arrived of the new economy of the information , the Canadians find of new ways of bring between them , with the markets , with the governments and the world around .
all the Canadians have a interest in the new economy of the know who system of the changes who touch profoundly all our lives .
the success of the Canada to the 21 century depend of the ability of all the Canadians of participate with success to the economy World of the know .
for ensure this participation , we will act quickly to of give to the Canadians the access and the skills necessary and of their ensure that this new Technology not minera in nothing the respect of the information personal which they can now fact .
the Bill bill C - 6 , the Act on the protection of the information personal and the documents electronic , is a not important in the too of these objectives .
honourable senators , the bill of bill C - 6 is the result of a review enlightened by of many expert in the field of the protection of the data and of the trade Electronic , of consultation public broader and of a review thorough to the other place .
he will submitted to of intense hearings by a Committee Standing of the Senate .
the bill of bill the attack to three questions broader for help the Canadians to well operating the true potential of the Internet as médium of information and way of nothing .
the bill of bill will , first , create a solution of alternative Electronic for deal with the government federal ; second , establish a sat legal for the issues electronic and of the signatures electronic seemingly ; third , protect the information personal of the Canadians when they deal with of the businesses private .
the government federal has was the a of the first to use the system Internet for improve the services that he practice to the Canadians , all in accroissant the effectiveness and in reducing the costs .
good number of the transactions with by the government federal with of the public , of the transmission of the statements of income to the research of information on a variety of issues , can now be with of way Electronic , and this of way many more quick and least little that we .
however , be could to many for from profit of all this that the Internet has to we to if be modifiait the laws and regulations federal in effect .
good number of our laws and regulations explicitly that the information must be sent by wrote or that some documents must to a signing .
these provisions can be interprétées , and the are often , as require a transaction manuelle on paper , empêchant as during the use to of the ' electronic .
the bill of bill C - 6 we allows of to our laws and regulations consistent with our new environment Electronic .
he we will of to a solution of alternative to the transmission of information on support paper .
the parties 2 to 5 of the bill of bill C - 6 by the itself - saying party took for the support paper in our laws and regulations federal in by essentially people this concept of support .
other said , the laws and regulations reconnaîtrons now the digital and information electronic on the even at that the documents suffice .
the bill of bill C - 6 make the transactions with on support Electronic to the words of the laws federal imports to those with on paper .
the citizens and the businesses will then be some that the documents and signatures electronic have the even value legal .
the bill of bill C - 6 not remplacera not and not eliminate not the Communications by wrote .
he will rather of the transmission Electronic of data by computer a option to the time realistic , practice and particularly no to the level legal .
of more , we let to the government federal of to of the services under a form who becomes of more in more popular with of the Canadians , be by seaway Electronic , to the way of Internet .
the Canadians want more that never to of the transactions electronic , not only with their governments , but also with the sector private .
well of the evidence come the confirm , from of the results of surveys of opinion to the number of transactions now with on Internet and to the rate of growth of these transactions .
in reason of the presence of the networks and of the memories increased to which the are in this field the progress technological , the businesses stood of more in more of information from of sources of more in more various , the échangent more quickly , the transmettent more far and the combinent of way more ingénieuse that never .
that has into the treatment of the information personal in a well .
the information personal are now " , sold and échangés .
they have a some value commercial .
for that fleurisse the trade Electronic to the Canada , the consumers must be " on the way which their information personal are collected , sauvegardés and used .
the Canadians are that their life privacy not be danger by the popularity growing of the transactions electronic and that the Elevators of the information and of the fichiers accumulés on each of between we .
they want that the government working with the businesses for with this problem .
that the results of a poll of the favours Angus Reid diffusés in July 1998 , 88p. per of the Canadians find " for " that the businesses and the organizations vendent , échangent or shared of the cherished enclosing of the information personal .
the community of the Affairs has recognized the malaise that that could create and has adopted a Code volunteered of the protection of the information personal public by the Association Canadian of normalisation .
even if the efforts been by the businesses for respect this Code are panels , the Canadians have need of best guarantees to of have the certainty that their life privacy is protégée when they are of the transactions .
the bill of bill C - 6 guarantees to the Canadians that their life privacy will protégée in for a Code of protection of the information personal to the time being and required .
, the hour current , the information personal facing all the boundaries , provincial , land and national .
however , the of that the bill of bill C - 6 is around on the world of the Affairs , the government federal believes that he will a year legitimate of the power of regulatory of the trade to the Canada .
however , honourable senators , the Committee which this bill of bill is referred further of the evidence of expert who will point of the arguments for and against to the about of this question constitutional .
honourable senators , he is clear necessary of adopt of the laws national .
the provinces , that they act only or collectively , not can adopt of the laws may of protect effectively the information who franchit the limits provincial and international .
a business of the British - British recueillant of the information on of the clients to the Manitoba could the book to a other business to the New - Brunswick or to New York .
he is therefore clear that the Canada has need of a bill national for protect the data personal in such circumstances - of a bill who would Blended with those of the provinces and of the territories acted their role in their report of jurisdiction .
honourable senators , the bill of bill C - 6 will the apply to all the sectors of activity , regardless of the size of the businesses .
that includes also the sector of the health .
he will to of protect the information personal in s of health who have was collected , used and releases in the framework of activities trade .
for that the rules on the protection of the data conflict of a juridiction to the other , the government encourage the provinces and the territories to protect the data of the citizens in their report of jurisdiction and to the harmonize not only with the bill federal on the protection of the information personal , but also between them .
the part 1 of the bill of bill C - 6 establishes the right to the protection of the information personal .
it states the rules who must govern the raising , the use and the communication of the information personal in the framework of activities trade .
the principles out in the standard of the CSA have with to the way which the organizations should was , use , book and protect the information personal .
they not that the businesses must explain the for which the information are collected ; obtain of the particular the consent of was the information ; use and book of the information personal ; and understand of the measures Motion the access to the issues and for the responsibility of the organization .
this is the Commissioner to the protection of the life privacy of the Canada who will responsible of superviser the enforcement of the part 1 of the bill .
he will responsible of to inquiry and of play the role of médiateur in case of dispute and that of to inquiry in the case of the complaints .
, my notice , the Committee want including discuss of the rules necessary for ensure to this that the Commissioner to the protection of the life privacy , in the year of his roles of investigator and of médiateur , respect the lines guidelines we of various decisions complete by the Court Supreme , there including the decision regarding the powers in s of delving , of perquisition and of back of the former Act Current to the investigation on the coalitions in report with the case of the Edmonton Journal .
this is clearly that a aspect on which the Committee want the with .
the differences not unravel can be broader in the framework of this bill in the what before the Court federal for that it - submission the question .
the Commissioner to the protection of the life privacy the with also wants a very mandate in s of education of the public , be help the businesses to satisfy to the requirements of the bill .
, the hour current to the Canada , be can say that the protection of the information personal is sporadique and inégale .
the majority of the industries not are absolutely not held of respect someone rule that this be regarding the cueillette , the use and the disclosure of the information personal .
the other are gives to this that the Commissioner to the protection of the life privacy of the Canada has called a " imperfect " of laws , of regulations and of codifies .
he not there has that the province of Quebec who has a bill of broader scope for the use of the information personal by the sector private .
the businesses Canadian are also that be agreed a legislation legislative who fixerait a only together of rules national to of addressed the rules of the at to the has of the country and of the various types of businesses .
the businesses Canadian liquidity that the protection of the life privacy has of the good sense on the plan of the Affairs .
they understand that a bill flexible , but effective will to convince the clients of accept the trade Electronic and , therefore , to increase the volume of the Affairs .
the Canada has need of a new bill for protect the life privacy .
this bill must ensure a sure balance .
of a on , he there has the right of the human of exercise a control on his information personal , and he must give to the consumers of the use effective the they feel that be in has fact a use brings .
of other on , the bill must answer to the needs of the industry , who must was and use of the information personal , this who is a part vital to the success in the economy of the information .
honourable senators , I believe that the bill of bill C - 6 , which we are before , assure the good balance .
he will to build the confidence of the so all in instaurant the rules who are to the community of the Affairs the climate of certainty which he has need for operating to further the potential of the trade Electronic and and help to to of the Canada a Leader of leadership in the trade Electronic and the field of the information .
I have forward of take on to the study of this bill of bill to the Committee .
I urge urge all the senators to take on to this study and to refer the bill of bill C - 6 the more quickly possible to the Committee .
the hon. Lowell Murray :
honourable senators , I hear to of the comments enough étoffées on the bill of bill , after what I move the adjournment of the debate .
several people and organizations have expressed of the concern to the about of this bill of bill .
I trying of take of the provisions for the meet to the beginning of the week next , if possible .
I think in particular to of the representatives of the sector of the health .
I not like not complete my comments to the step of the second Reading without hear their point of view .
after the adjournment of the debate , I me move of complete my intervention to our return , after the break of the day of the Souvenir .
I attention also to the honourable senators that to the least a other colleague of this side - this , the Senator Oliver , will participate to the debate of second Reading .
in reality , the bill of bill so two measures in a only .
her the Minister of the Justice has it - even influencing , when it has appeared before the Committee of the Commons , that he there had to the departure two bills of bill separate , this that the officials have confirmed .
, the over of the study to the cabinet , someone a is came with of the ciseaux and a although of glue and has decided of in to a only text .
the part 1 plan the information personal who are collected to of the for trade .
the parties 2 to 5 veilleront to this that the documents and the tactical electronic be consistent with the Act on the evidence to the Canada , the Act on the were regulatory , the Act on the review of the laws , and and of on .
this legislation facilitera the trade Electronic with the government of the Canada .
the part 1 and the parties 2 to 5 not the limit not to a principle or to a theme in particular .
this bill of bill is in effect a bill of bill omnibus .
this is the of the hon. Herb Gray , who spoke then to the behalf of the Opposition to the opportunity of the debate on the free - Exchange to the House of the Commons in 1988 .
is his about :
the Main advantage of a procedure omnibus , this is that the bill of bill in question , well that he is to establish or to amend several laws disparates , based on a principle or a objective who creates a link between all the laws proposed , by and the bill of bill intelligible in the context Parliamentary .
however , this bill of bill " not framework not " , as be said , with this definition .
the - this is very amplification .
several attests the have resuming by the on , the considering as a excellent definition of this that should be a good bill omnibus .
the bill of bill C - 6 not is not a good bill omnibus .
he based on two themes , two principles different .
be said in any charities and in they that of the problems are were face the editors , this attempt of invent a principle or a theme then that he not in is nothing not has nothing of very performance .
this is all to fact déloyal .
is still of the pirouettes legal and assaults .
the first part of the bill of bill , regarding the protection of the information personal , relates on the information personal collected of someone way that this be , by of the means electronic or all other way .
the long as , in tâchant of give a principle unique or a theme unique to the bill of bill - I the say still a time in a spirit charitable - is a wonderful absurdité that the editors we have concoctée .
the Senator Stewart me has accused he there has few years of have the spirit of a mandarin .
I not think not that this be true .
even if this the was in part , I me inclinerais certainly before the Senator Kirby , because I not would even not in the even ligue that him to this regard .
however , I think have learning enough of experience for understand someone something to the spirit mandarin and even to the spirit policy .
, a time of , someone a is came and has said : " As we not have that as of time Parliamentary to our clause , collons these two bills of bill together . "
then be procéda , électroniquement well course , to the cut - rereading .
this is and that the bill of bill has was set .
this is always the even because , the even ground , to know the convenience of the executive to which the prerogatives of the Parliament have was and and and time subordonnées since 30 years and who , to my humble notice , has into the House of the Commons in a real coquille vacuum .
this is very regrettable .
I not know not very well if we , of this side - this , should continue this question .
of a side , I me say that we must really take Position on of the things of this such , by principle .
of a other side , I me say that to the other place , he the is past so of time that they have even about in what could well leaving their prerogatives and that , the they not the in soucient not , why should - we we in knowing ?
I will however benefit of the opportunity for consult my colleagues to of determine if , to a at ultérieur of the debate , we want continue the question .
the Senator Graham the will certainly of the many examples of bills of bill divided by the Senate .
when I at of the side first and that I was responsible of the ACOA , I had presented a bill of bill to to create this agency and of other agencies , which the Corporation of development of the Cape - Cape .
he there had of the provisions who the regroupaient very well , but my friend the Senator Graham and the Leader of the party to the time , the Senator MacEachen , had some reserves .
a message has was sent to the House of the Commons for him to know that we had divided the bill of bill in two , and the rest .
I wanted out that , honourable senators , even if this not is that to as informatif , because that he the is of a question of principle .
the bill of bill was the bill of bill C - 54 during of the first session of the its Parliament .
he is death to the Paper to the step of the report to the time of the prorogation and has was ressuscité to the beginning of this new session .
this that I have to say on the bill of bill C - 6 and on the evidence heard by the committees has with in great part to the deliberations on the bill of bill C - 54 .
of after this that I have could see , the parties 2 to 5 , be the parties on the trade Electronic , not reviewers no objection of principle .
the controversy , if I can really speak of controversy , just particularly of the part 1 , on the protection of the life privacy .
that example the problems who where when the be wants of souder two bills of bill .
he the could very well that the witnesses , the other parties interested and the legislators of the other place have " too little of attention to the parties 2 to 5 . God knows that these parties are important .
they divert , between other , to the system judicial , be the courts , the right , the statements under oath and the rest .
he the could that , since the part 1 prepared more to controversy , the parties 2 to 5 have was examined in greater only as by the parties interested that by the legislators .
I the as , this is that a problem is of up when be based two bills of bill in a only .
in this who with the part 1 , and my comments of today today the limiteront for the most to this part , that he me be for of express my great préjugé favourable .
I am a as advocate of the protection of the life privacy .
that is indissociable of the dignity of the individual .
the Act on the protection of the life privacy protects the individual against any it to his life privacy who would the fact of the government federal or of the a of his agencies .
this bill is effective .
, this that I far , it the has always was .
we not had not before today today of bill for protect the information personal collected in a context commercial .
I for the government of have filled this deficiency .
he in was time and I there support without contingency .
I can hope that he will given that of the support that we comptons to to this initiative - I believe power speak to the behalf of the senators of this side - this of the House - and that all this that I speak say to the about , who would is of from for of the criticism , will perceived to the favour of our agreed with this text who protects the information personal collected to of the for trade .
, this regard , I not see not of generates , to the contrary of some people , to this that the Commissioner to the protection of the life privacy jouisse of some powers .
I not believe not that these powers be inordinate .
I believe that the life privacy of the individual any to a point such that the Parliament must go until - that , the he the must , for the protect .
I be in from that the structure of the bill of bill has fact the subject of some criticism .
the as 1 it - even contains a combination of the aspects obligatoires - this who must be fact - and of the aspects are - this who can and should be fact .
the lawyers who have examined carefully this bill of bill and who have prepared of the findings written on this about have should that this would very difficult and that this that the be would should to , and that the be should always to , would of include all the provisions obligatoires understand in this as in the body of the bill , not bearing that the aspects possible or are in the as .
I raises the question to the intention of the Committee .
if that can to of improve the bill of bill , as better .
be has fact of the representations to the House réclamant a exemption general .
I not taken not many of such of ask .
he is possible however , in some areas , and , of the health me just immediately to the spirit , that the be can ask a treatment particular in under of the bill , and I there will more later .
as I the have already said , I not am not very favourable to this such of ask of exemption .
in fact , I not am not sure of be of agreed with some of the exemptions already domain in the bill of bill to the hour current .
I like all particularly draw your attention on the ( 4 ( 2 ) c ) to the part 1 , who for that this part not the applies not :
... to a organization to the regard of the information personal that it recueille , using or report to of the for are , arts or littéraires and to no other end .
I will of first of the for arts or littéraires .
of what the is - he ?
that not you seems he not be a definition extremely include ?
I believe that it the is .
can - be the make a little ?
we should to all the least try .
when the question has was raised for the study of the Committee of the House of the Commons , he has was has to the over of a statement that without this exemption , the mistaken could be contrary to the bill .
you know this that are the mistaken , honourable senators .
they understand a mixture of facts and of fiction .
they are interesting to look , but they should can - be be regulated by a bill of this such .
be not should can - be not the exempt systematically .
I believe that the question deserves of be thorough .
for this who is of the exemption regarding the information personal collected to of the for are , the reason for which this exemption is scheduled is very simple : if it not there not and that this bill of bill was adopted , he would challenged , and very probably with success , in under of the Charter Canadian of the rights and freedoms in involving the right of the express , the freedom of press .
this is probably true .
however , that raises a question in my spirit : why the Charter Canadian of the rights and freedoms not for - it not the protection of the right to the life privacy , this who put this right on the even plan that the rights their to the freedom of the press ?
I think that he is regrettable that the Charter Canadian of the rights and freedoms not prévoie not a such protection .
let - I of give to the honourable senators few information of order historic .
he there has long of that , in 1979 , the government Trudeau , by the through of the Minister of the Justice of then , Mr. Jean Chr , prit the commitment , in a statement of principles constitutional , that the right to the life privacy would the a of the rights that the government federal proposerait of at in a future Charter of the rights and freedoms .
when the opportunity was came of the to for the period who has led to the Constitution of 1982 , this even government , réincarné under a form different after 1980 , the is pieces .
Mr. . Chr was of new Minister of the Justice .
the honourable senators the will that a Committee Joint of the House of the Commons and of the Senate has examined the bill of canadianisation of the Constitution and , more particularly , the array of the Charter of the rights and freedoms .
the chairmen were the Senator Harry Hays , the father of our colleague , and Serge Joyal , who was then member .
the members Conservatives and NDP - i of the Committee prirent the initiative of propose that the right to the life privacy be recorded in the Charter .
the Senator Kirby the in will .
Mr. . Chr the there opposa .
the argument was that the concept of life privacy was too include .
in addition , he was of notice that the life privacy would enough protégée by the section 7 , who relates on the security of the human , and by the section 8 , regarding the denial , the perquisitions and the saisies abusive , of the Charter .
what that he in be , the initiative of the Conservatives and of the NDP - i was defeated , to wrong , I think .
in the negotiations of 1992 who have avid to the Agreement of Charlottetown , the present Commissioner to the protection of the life privacy , Mr. Bruce Phillips , is spoken and has asked , with many of to - about , that a amendment be made to the Charter for that it garantisse the right to the life privacy .
in their wisdom , the first ministers not the have not fact .
be said sometimes that we are protected by the laws on the diffamation .
he would that of the people more paid in the right that I analysent this with , but all this that I can in think , this is that the media can print or according any the information that they the wish on not any who , portion that it be true .
be said in from , honourable senators , in a long section which in the edition of the Globe and Mail of this morning , be spoke of the efforts that are the historians for cancel the commitment that Sir Wilfrid Laurier had spent in the bill for protect the data of the census .
I know that the Senator Milne has a opinion to this about .
number of historians want to the with on of the data personal who have was communiquées under the Manual of the confidentiality to the recenseurs since 1906 , I believe .
the historians would drew that he would rise this restriction .
Mr. . Phillips , Commissioner to the protection of the life privacy , by also drew that he not would not the rise .
let - I of say that I am of agreed Mr. Phillips .
if my great - father or my back - great - father have release of the information personal to the recenseur on the faith of the commitment took by Sir Wilfrid Laurier , I believe that he would respect this commitment .
as the hon. Senator the has fact out , to the Canada , he is inexorable that a bill of bill of this such raises of the questions Constitutional , in the sense classic of the questions on the Division of the powers and that of the questions federal - provincial who are more of order administrative .
on the question constitutional , the opinions expressed will of a so to the other , be of the application appropriate of the power Liberal in s of trade until to the with be that the bill of bill strictly far over - beyond of the skills of the Parliament federal .
my opinion of layman , that be will for this that it worth , this who not is not many , 1 to the that has stated the Senator Kirby .
I am of notice that this bill of bill for a application doubt and legitimate of the power federal in s of trade ; of , , the Senator Kirby has statement with to - about , as only can the to a layman , some of the reasons who the follows .
I add that to my notice , the government federal not should not hesitate , as the governments the have fact in the past , to point this power in s of trade .
the existence is valid .
faithful to the as , the Association of the Society Canadian has presented a testimony little useful before the Committee of the House of the Commons .
by out that some legal had said the legislation ultra ultra , that of other the had judged that consistent to the powers who we headed and that of other still had some a opinion the very between the two first , the Association of the Society Canadian made that all these were were can to the words of the Constitution .
the Association of the Society Canadian the the dérobée , I think that the Committee should , as the has proposed the Senator Kirby , to to further this question .
we must the study seriously .
we should hear the expert .
I believe that we able we address to the senators who have more of knowledge and of experience that I in s constitutional .
they agreeable can - be even to amend the opinion that we have , the Senator Kirby and I , on this question , but I in doubt .
the Quebec is the only province who protects really the information personal collected to of the for trade .
the Quebecers benefit of a double protection since he there a chapter of the Code Civil of the Quebec who protects the information personal in more of a Act on the protection of the information personal .
the Senator Kirby not the has not mentioned , then I the am .
during the three first years after the Assent Royal , after the proclamation , this bill the apply only to the activities trade who matters of the government federal and to the trade interprovincial .
this is not is that after three years that it the apply to the activities trade to the within of a province , and only if this province not has not adopted of bill same .
be the ask why the government the give all this difficulty , that given of the assertion firm of the power in s of trade , but I believe that this is with to the fact that the Quebec has already a bill and that the Alberta would in are of in prepare a .
I add that the ministers provincial of the Justice have all asked that this bill of bill be from .
as I the have said , I believe that this is go too far .
in more of the question constitutional , be has raised the problem of the doubt and of the confusion who can régner in the provinces who have their own bill , as the Quebec .
we will then the bill federal , who the apply to the activities trade relevant of the federal and to the trade interprovincial , and the bill provincial , who the apply to the activities trade to the within of the province .
he will can - be more difficult that be the think of to the distinction between these various activities .
that is - this who is interprovincial and that is - this who is intraprovincial ?
what bill the apply , the bill federal or the bill provincial ?
he risk of there have of the difficulties administrative , of the ambiguïtés and of the équivoques .
the problems administrative can always be surmontés .
the Senator Kirby , a mandarin , effort certainly this assertion , but the ministers provincial , as I the have said , have asked that the bill of bill be from , and I believe that they should be heard for that be attempts of the anyone or , if this is possible , of answer to their concerns .
the Senator Kirby has spoke of the sector of the care of health .
Mr. . Manley , the Minister of the Industry , who has sponsored this bill of bill to the other place , believes that he has answered to the concerns expressed to the way of a amendment that he has présentéle 15 October , if I not me read .
of after the information that I have , the representatives of the sector of the care of health who have expressed of such concerns not are not of the all convinced that be has there answered .
the Association dental Canadian has adopted a Position enough firm to this regard .
this not is can - be not as the case of the doctors and of the hospitals , but they have all presented of the you and we will hear this that they have to say during of the study of the bill of bill in Committee .
the Association Canadian of the care of health is particularly concern to this about .
the relations doctor - patient not are not of nature " commercial " , that the definition used in this bill of bill , or those can - be with the pharmacies and of other pourvoyeurs of care of health .
the Association Canadian of the care of health has from a notice legal very detailed and , I say , very dévastateur .
he just of a s of lawyers of Montreal and the human who has wrote the letter of " has took the only of to out that the lawyers who had worked to this question had all served , to as of volunteers , of important positions in of the hospitals and of the associations of care of health , and cetera .
the senators who the interested to this bill of bill , and particularly who have the intention of take on to the study of this bill of bill in Committee , must absolutely read this notice legal .
I not am not of agreed with those who think that we should simply who the care of health and the sector of the care of health .
, my notice , we should reconsidered the possible of to to this important sector a place special in the bill .
as I the have said , I have the intention , personally or by the through of my members , of their speak and of listen this that they have to say .
I will on this question when I call end to my remarks , the 16 November .
after these remarks préliminaires , honourable senators , I move the adjournment of the debate .
( on the motion of the Senator Murray , the debate is adjourned . )
the Act on the stopped judicial
bill of bill Amend - Second Reading - Adjourned of the debate
he the is of a bill of bill important , the of that he with of the improvement of the security of our children and of the of other people vulnerable .
however , he so that we be in the obligation of study a great number of measures legislation important .
he worth therefore the only of so the major elements and objectives of the bill of bill .
of first and before all , the changes will for effect of increase the security of the public .
they features accessible , for end of review to the over of the filtrage , the stopped judicial of the offenders sexual who benefit of a preventative and who the them candidates to of the positions possessing a situation of confidence .
and , a " indicateur " will put in the system of the casiers judicial when a offender body will the subject of a preventative and that the matter will scellé .
that means that when a body who the ' of children want know the history of new employees , volunteers or paid , the history of a candidate who has already made a offence of nature sexual and to who has was granted a preventative , not from not inaperçus .
little of things are also troublantes that the idea that those who the attack to of the children innocent can find found in a organization where these children should the feel in security and protected .
we know yet that that is already came .
the bill of bill add a weapon to our arsenal for help to prevent these incidents .
in addition , the bill of bill will four things .
all of first , he make more clear and aquatic the system of preventative in for the repeal immediate of the preventative as that he there will condemnation for this that be Order a offence Joint , this is - to - say a offence who can be - be by seaway of implementation in charge , be by seaway of statement summary of about .
second , the candidate who the is seen refuse the preventative will expect to the least a year before of power to a new ask .
third , the calls to the commission in case of refusal or of repeal the will normally by wrote only , to least that the Board national of the libérations reversal not would a hearing .
fourth , the bill of bill indiquera more clear that the preventative has for effect of sceller the matter and not of effacer the fact that he there has had condemnation .
well that all these measures be important in they - same , I like me focus primarily on the question of the preventative of the offenders sexual .
the Act on the stopped judicial establishes a system of preventative for the former offenders who have demonstrated that they menaient now a life rangée .
in under of this bill , the stopped judicial of the offenders can be scellé the they get their preventative with of the Board national of the libérations reversal .
he any of not not forget that the scellage not efface not the condemnation , not more that he not purge the stopped judicial .
the condemnation is after all a fact balances .
the stopped judicial can be réouvert on the ask of the Solicitor General , when this is in the interest of the justice or of the security national .
honourable senators , the preventative not is not granted easily .
it the is only if a human has fact evidence of a conduct irréprochable and not has not perpétré of crime for a period constitutes .
in the case of offences punissables on statement summary of about , he is necessary of to evidence of a conduct irréprochable for three years , after have purgé his only .
the bill of bill C - 7 specific clear that that includes the payment of amendes .
in the case of actions criminals more serious , the period of Awaiting is of five years .
the Board national of the libérations reversal must confirm that the claimants has fact evidence of a conduct irréprochable for any this period .
before of to a preventative , be consult the police of all the communities where has lived the claimants to the over of the five past years .
he any of know that the broader majority of the réhabilités continue of respect the bill .
since 28 years , close of a quarter of million of réhabilitations have was awarded and , of this number , only a little more of 6 . have was révoquées to because of a new offence .
that represents a rate of success of more of 97p. per .
the bill of bill C - 7 relates primarily on the offenders sexual , who are a small under - group of the more great group of the candidates to the preventative .
the Department of the Solicitor General has recently esteemed that to the over of the 28 past years , 4 200 offenders sexual had from a preventative .
only 114 of these offenders , be percent per , have seen their preventative révoquée for have made a other abuse sexual .
these estimates indicate that , fortunately , only a small number of offenders sexual réhabilités this the risk of récidiver .
however , also small this number be - he , he is important of reduce this risk to the level the more there possible .
the bill of bill C - 7 we will to the to .
the bill of bill C - 7 at support on of the measures who have already was taken for protect the children and other people vulnerable .
and , a not important has was fact in 1994 , when be has created the Classification national of filtrage .
this system based on the Centre of information of the police Canadian , the CIPC or , in English , CPIC .
through to the CIPC , the organizations have access to of the information who their allow of eliminate the perpetrators sexual of children of their cherished of candidates to of the positions who the best to work with of children .
the creation of this system has fact on to of extensive consultation with of agencies of services to the children , of authorities school and of responsible of services social , of agencies volunteers such that the Clubs of boys and daughters of the Canada , the Lakes Frères and the Grandes S9urs , Bénévoles Canada , and that the police and of the agencies of assistance to the victims .
these agencies have said that the audit of the stopped judicial was a part important of a process of filtrage more thorough .
the Classification national of filtrage is the result of the cooperation between the agencies of services to the children , the as policiers , the Centre of information of the police Canadian , and that the departments of the Solicitor General , of the Health and of the Justice .
the Classification national of filtrage has of of good results .
the bill of bill C - 7 will the Classification national of filtrage in corrigeant a pleasant who has was décelée .
in effect , the matter of a offender body réhabilité can 8.4 to the attention to the over of a audit of use with of the Centre of information of the police Canadian , or CIPC , to of the for of filtrage .
in the of present of the things , the Solicitor General has the power of reopen the matter of a offender réhabilité and of the bring to of the for consistent with the Administration of the justice , including for the filtrage .
as the issues of this such are tariffs of the system of the CIPC and remove to on in a basic of data scellée , they not apparaissent not to the time of a research of use .
this system of protection , this is exactly this that is the Act on the stopped judicial .
in the most of the case , indeed , these issues should be reference when he there has preventative .
however , when a human with his Security to a as of confidence and that the matter relates to believe that he there would a level increased of risk for a category specific of people vulnerable , a exception is valid .
the ministers of the Justice and the - worry federal , provincial and territorial the are all heard on this point during of their meeting in October 1998 .
a group of work of senior officials has examined the means of better protect the children and has submitted 10 recommendations in this sense to the ministers responsible .
these 10 recommendations have all was adopted and are in are of be with in application .
he has was proposed , between other , that the issues of the offenders sexual to fact the subject of a preventative be people availability for the filtrage of the candidates to of the positions of confidence .
the Solicitor General of the Canada , with the support of the Minister of the Justice , has by during of the meeting of 1998 of determine the better way of the to in consultation with all his Provincial provincial .
the bill of bill C - 7 was the next step logical .
as I the have fact out more earlier , he for that , when the be on of the CIPC the matter of a offender body on to his preventative , be decide to the place a indicateur .
some will that this legislation will to the with of the objective basic of the Act on the stopped judicial and this is a concern serious , well heard .
we want that the system of preventative works well .
however , he the is of a exception circonscrite and limited who , that I , the only .
the ministers of the Justice of all the governments have seconded this principle .
if we not take not this legislation , we there of order the consequences possible of the preventative who would a weighs body to the frayer a move to a as of confidence with of children or of other people vulnerable .
he will banned by the bill and by the policy of the CIPC of the serve of this Code without Authorized .
he will always obtain the consent of the claimants , and this last will always the choice of withdraw his ask the he not wish not book the matter to the body who are to the filtrage .
for the ensure that the claimants is identified with estate , be inform his fingerprints With to the ask of adjourned of the scellés on the matter described by the preventative .
finally , the Solicitor General will there that the disclosure of the stopped is valid .
be précisera the offences them who will be pointed and that the factors who will took in consideration by the Solicitor General for decide of the desirability of desceller the matter .
honourable senators , you you remember can - be that the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional has given a very good debate on this who was then the bill of bill C - 69 during and after the appearance of the Solicitor General in June last and to the opportunity of a Senate very culmination in September .
I like out the contribution very constructive of the Senator Nolin .
the Committee was particularly interested by the regarding of children and of other people vulnerable and by the identification specific of the list of the offences them which he is question in this bill of bill .
I am sure that the excellent work of the Committee will useful to the Senate when the Committee will to new this bill of bill , who is now the bill of bill C - 7 .
he is important of recognize that the bill of bill C - 7 just the add to of the measures already taken by the government for improve the protection of the children .
these provisions are to the recommendation unanimous of the ministers of the provinces and of the territories .
they have received the support unanimous of all the parties to the other place .
they are consistent , I believe , with the concern common that have all the members , the of to all this who is possible for protect our children and the adults vulnerable of the prédateurs sexual who turn to their resulting of the wrong .
( on the motion of the Senator Kinsella , to the behalf of the Senator Nolin , the debate is adjourned . )
the Committee of selection
Adopted of the fourth report
the Senate on to the study of the fourth report of the Committee of selection ( is of various committees ) , presented to the Senate 3 November 99 . - ( - hon. Senator MLA ) .
the hon. Léonce MLA :
honourable senators , I move the Adopted of this report .
the hon. Fernand Robichaud ( His Hon. the Speaker Acting ) :
honourable senators , you pleasure - he of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed , and the report is adopted . )
the Canadians eminent and their role to the Kingdom - U
inquiry - Adjourned of the debate
the hon. Anne C . Cools , to of notice the 2 November 99 :
that it call the attention of the Senate on :
has ) the people valour to the Canada who have sat to the House of the Commons of the Kingdom - U , there including the Navan of the Ontario Edward Blake , Minister of the Justice of the Canada of 1875 to 1877 and Leader of the Party Liberal of the Canada of 1880 to 1887 , the Navan of the New - Brunswick the very hon. Bonar Law , Prime Minister of the Kingdom - U of 1922 to 1923 , and the Navan of the Ontario Sir Bryant Irvine , vice - chairman of the House of the Commons of the Kingdom - U of 1976 to 1982 ;
b ) the people valour to the Canada who have sat to the House of the Lords of the Kingdom - U , there including the trèshon. Richard B . Bennett , Prime Minister of the Canada of 1930 to 1935 , and Lord Beaverbrook , Minister of the Kingdom - U in 1918 and of 1940 to 1942 ;
c ) the Britanniques of birth Regarding to the Kingdom - U or in the dominions and colonies who have sat to the Senate and to the House of the Commons of the Canada , there including the trèshon. John Turner , Prime Minister in 1984 and Leader of the Opposition Liberal of 1984 to 1990 , and I - even , Senator black in year born in the Antilles British ;
d ) the people of citizenship Canadian who have fact part of the Council private of the Kingdom - U , there including the first ministers of the Canada , the judges in Leader of the Court Supreme and some ministers Canadian which the Leader of the government to the Senate of 1921 to 1930 and of 1935 to 1942 , the trèshon. Senator Raoul Dandurand , who has was appointed to the Council private of the Kingdom - U in 1941 ;
e ) the resolution Nickle of 1919 , a motion of the House of the Commons of the Canada in view of a is to Majesty Majesty the king George V , and the about that the Prime Minister R . B . Bennett has held in 1934 to the about :
" this was also inefficient in right that possible .
not only this was inefficient , but this was also , I regret of the say , a affront to the sovereign him - even .
not any what lawyer of right constitutional or anyone the give the only of study this question the in makes well that . " ;
f ) the about that the Prime Minister R . B . Bennett has held in 1934 in a letter to the member J . R . MacNicol :
" as that I resterai citizen of the as British and assumption about of the king , I hear recognize to the sovereign the prerogative of recognize the services of his issues . "
g ) the many distinguished Canadians who have since 1919 received of the honours of the king or of the Queen of the Canada , there including the assembled to the order of the chevalerie in 1934 of Sir Lyman Duff , Justice in Leader of the Court Supreme of the Canada , in 1935 of Sir Ernest MacMillan , musicien , in 1986 of Sir Bryant Irvine , Parliamentary , in 1994 of Sir Neil Shaw , industrial , and in 1994 of Sir Conrad Swan , ' of the Prime Minister Pearson to the about of the flag national of the Canada ;
p.m. ) the many distinguished Canadians who have received 646 honours and travail of souverains foreign not British and not Canadian between 1919 and February 1929 ;
i ) the Position legal and constitutional of the Canadians of birth and of citizenship regarding their ability or their inaptitude to sit to the House of the Lords and or to the House of the Commons of the Kingdom - U , including the Canadians domiciliés to the Kingdom - U and beyond of the double citizenship of the Canada and of the Kingdom - U ;
j ) the Position legal and constitutional of the Canadians domiciliés to the country or to the abroad regarding their right of receive of the honours and of the distinctions of their own sovereign , the Queen Elizabeth II of the Canada , and that their right of receive of the honours and of the distinctions of souverains other that the their , there including the sovereign of the France , the honour of the Order Alaska of the Legion of honour ;
k ) the honours , the distinctions and the travail who not are not héréditaires as the peerage to life , the assembled to the order of the chevalerie and the levels military and of chevalerie ;
l ) the recommendation by the Prime Minister British Tony Blair to Majesty Majesty the Queen Elizabeth II to of appoint as member not héréditaire of the House of the Lords Conrad Black , a distinguished publisher and entrepreneur Canadian and Colonel Honorary of the Governor General' s Foot Guards of the Canada .
- honourable senators , I addressed today today the link historic and constitutional between the Canada and the Kingdom - U , the systems constitutional and Parliamentary and that the citizenship that we share .
he not there has not if long , of my alive , he not there had not of distinction between the citizenship British and the citizenship Canadian , well that the sovereignty of the Canada has découlé of a status particular of dominion .
in as that human black who has seen the day and who has was way until to the age of 13 years to the Barbade , in the Antilles British and who has déménagé to the Canada , I have lived this double experience .
of the years more later , after have including that , as English of origin British alive to the Quebec , I not would never a true Québécoise , I have left the Quebec for the Ontario , this who fact of I a réfugiée of in the " all laine " .
I believe firmly that the be sape my heritage and that I must the to point and the defend .
honourable senators , good number of people to the country , there including of the ministers , préconisent the dismantling of the monarchy constitutional of the Canada .
I as this assaults constitutional of démolition of the Canada .
they insofar a called outlawing democratic and popular to the with of the aristocratie , but their call in favour of the principle of the democracy is superficiel , rhetoric and very transparent .
they this the absolutisme to the public as the he the was of the former absolutisme of the man , all in by deliberately disregard of the absolutisme present of the Cabinets and of the courts of the era modern .
these démolisseurs are in situation of bankrupt independent and moral .
they induisent the public in mistake because that the Canada not has never had of aristocratie or of structure policy aristocratique .
, the difference of this who the is past to the Kingdom - U , the aristocratie not has never fact part of the structure social , economic , military or policy of the Canada .
the Canada , as new peuplement , not has never known of conditions Social who have has the creation of structures aristocratiques .
the Canada not has never met the conditions pre to the institution of the principle aristocratique , be the principle héréditaire known in England under the beside of bill of the primogéniture , or possédé the structure aristocratique necessary for ensure the protection of the people and of the property , be the protection of the life and of the freedom assured by the aristocrate to his vassaux in States of their loyalty and of their services .
, the Kingdom - U , this structure aristocratique and policy has yielding the not to the over of the time to a government with responsibility government , model that the Canada has adopted as the beginning of the history by the through of the system of the parties political .
my culture policy the based of a monarchy constitutional and of the institutions parliamentarians British who have of to the Antilles British the more one legislatures legislation of the Alexander of the way way .
these institutions parliamentarians have led to the abolition of the trade of the esclaves in 1807 and to the abolition of the slavery proprement said in 1833 .
the part essential of a government first responsible of the Parliament of the Queen is the duty of the cabinet of Majesty Majesty of find , with the confidence of the Parliament , of the solutions political rather that legal , judicial or military to of the problems and to of the conflict human .
the policy is the solution to the most of the problems .
the art of the policy is the more great contribution of our system British .
the policy , this is also recommend and to of the appointments and of the travail political .
honourable senators , the Barbade is a - would which the legislature legislative , who has was established in 1639 , is the more former to the outside of the Kingdom agree
it much cleansing with the French Haiti and Cuba the Isabella , who are all two of the republics and all two of the colonies not British .
I am very there to the Parliament of the Queen and not to of no institution républicaine for the Canada .
I not like not that the be move of to of the Canada a république .
I me there opposerai always , as I have an of the to .
the Canadians not are not least free or least independent that the citizens of not any what république .
this is a real tragedy that of the schools , of the institutions political and , particularly , of many politicians say of preserve the magnificent heritage constitutional of the Canada .
some have said that this was sad for a country .
honourable senators , I in just now to the prerogative of the Queen relatively to the service who is to Crowshoe of the reconnaissances , of the honours , of the distinctions and of the by .
this is the former prerogative of the souverains that of Crowshoe of the honours to their issues .
inversement , the citizens - the Canadians , in the here - have the right of receive of the honours of the on of their Sovereign .
in addition , the Canadians who resident in of other country have the right of be privileged by the sovereign of these country .
in case of duplicates sovereignty and citizenship , these Canadians have right to these benefits .
that is vital in this era of globalization , that the policy foreign of our government has seconded drew .
the desire of the human of be privileged by of other human for of the accomplishments community , such that he is expressed by a recognition of the sovereign , is powerful , highest and important .
all those who the are distinguished on the scene policy , in the industry , in the Arts , in the community , in the service military , by of the actions of bravery and in all the aspects of the service public shared this desire universal of the human of not to that a with his brothers and kindred human .
such is the prerogative Royal , who there to protect this aspect of the nature human and to the command .
our Sovereign are a relationship special with each of his issues .
all about , in under of this relationship special , has right to the justice , to the indulgence , to the recognition , to the protection and to the peace of the Queen .
this is this that which the lexique .
this right result of this relationship special between the Queen and each of his issues .
this relationship is breathing and profoundly personal because that it is ancrée in a belief and a ideal who the Order God , the Queen and the nation .
honourable senators , excusez - I if I not have not fact of distinction between " all ambition human " , " avidité " and need human of approval by his Sovereign , the Source of the distinctions for the contributions to the well common .
I wanted say désirs honourable for of the honours .
honourable senators , I will now of the resolution Nickle , who has was proposed by William Folger Nickle , member Conservative of Kingston , and agreed to the House of the Commons the 22 May 1919 .
this motion , a motion of the House of the Commons only the ability to Majesty Majesty George V , not has never was Before to the agrément of the Senate .
the reasons political are clear and evident .
it would was without no doubt battue to hang couture because that the senators have soon before his means policy and constitutional .
in addition , it the mass to Majesty Majesty , and not to the Governor General of the Canada , who was then the Duke of Devonshire .
it asked to Majesty Majesty of not not honour of the Canadians and the bedtime , in substance , as following :
we ... ... ... scenes with Honour Majesty , advisable that he him please :
has ) of the alone now of legislation of the by of honour or of distinction to someone a of your issues domiciliés or resident of plain to the Canada ... ... ...
b ) that it take the measures necessary , legislation or other , for ensure the has of the by , dignités , distinctions - the of fine of the blind by example - to the Late of a human currently domiciliée to the Canada or to his residence usual then that it from of a as Doctorate héréditaire ... ... ...
honourable senators , 10 years more later , in 1929 , the Commons have given a other debate on the resolution Nickle .
the 12 February 1929 , Charles Cahan , member Conservative , has proposed that be set a Committee Special of the House for to inquiry and report on the desirability of limit , amend or rescinder the is Nickle agreed the 22 May 1919 .
the Prime Minister William Lyon Mackenzie King had said in this debate , as the collected the é of the House of the Commons of this day - that to the page 78 :
if we vote of not not have of by Doctorates , of plight of distinction or of travail to the Canada , be about to the principle and not in are not of the all ; abolissons - the completely ; but if the souverains or the leaders of other States are given to Crowshoe of the honours to of the Canadians , I believe , as to I , that we must to our own sovereign of him to this prerogative before all the other .
the results of the vote took the 14 February on the motion Mr. Cahan indicate that the Prime Minister King and the Leader of the Opposition conservatrice , Mr. Richard B . Bennett , had all two voted Right .
... the government of Majesty Majesty of the Canada is of notice that the motion regarding the by Doctorates agreed the 22 May 1919 , by a vote of the majority of the House of the Commons of the thirteenth Parliament ( who was dissousle 4 October 1921 ) not for no Majesty Majesty or the government of Majesty Majesty to the Canada , or the 10 - seventeenth Parliament of the Canada .
in of other words , the text ask to the sovereign , by the way of a resolution of the House of the Commons , of stop of exercise his prerogative to the Canada .
no group of words not could have least of effect , in right .
not only he not had no effect , but , I regret of have to the see , he was a injure to the sovereign even .
, the about of his efforts in view of back in effect the recommendations to Majesty Majesty regarding the list of the travail , the Prime Minister , in the even speech , has added this , to the page 96 of the Hansard of the Commons :
this is that the act of the Prime Minister ; he must in assume the responsibility ; he must also take on him the responsibility of have informed the Crown that the resolution agreed by the House of the Commons is invalide and of none effect in this who taking the prerogative of the sovereign .
is who is expectation clear to my be .
honourable senators , to my notice , all an Canadian who is pressenti for be appointed to the House of the Lords of the Kingdom - U or all Canadian pressenti by Majesty Majesty the Queen for a recognition whatever fact honour to the Canada .
each time that a Canadian is honoured , this is a great honour for I .
this is a great honour for we all .
the Canada in resort up .
I in just now Mr. Conrad Black .
honourable senators , recently , be has used the words " Lord Almost " and " Lord Nearly Nearly " for décrireM. Conrad Black .
I know to the distinction between this who is good and this who is ridiculous .
I know to the distinction between a criticism an and a criticism demeaning .
because Mr. Black is a man rich , some find good of the cover of for as the he was unresponsive .
I believe Mr. Conrad Black is a great and an Canadian .
the world Mr. Black not is not the hall .
this not is not a world in which I have worked .
the world is , of the high funding where the be at of great risks financial - the world of the entrepreneuriat , of the competition , of the trade and of the production of newspapers .
this is a world that I respect , even if I not there am not directly mêlée .
I am a Liberal - a Liberal to the sense classic of the 19 century .
the libéralisme me has learned to respect the people who have the makes necessary for create the only and of the jobs for of other people .
the libéralisme me has learned that the employment of people by the business privacy by Opposition to the sector public is the true legislation of the only economic of a community .
honourable senators , of such have believed that the more great contribution to the world that had In the libéralisme , in as that principle policy , was the concept that the only could be created and shared by all and each - that the creation of the only and the fact of the would not were not subject to the principle of the hérédité , but rather to the ability , the spirit of initiative , the energy and the effort of each be human .
the parcours Mr. Black , who is unborn in a community modest , represents a pain for the libéralisme and the principle Liberal .
of even , the libéralisme , by Opposition to the let - to , sold that the governments brought on the markets not only for protect the life , the integrity and the competition , but also for give a depend of security social to the workers .
Mr. . Black has created of the employment for of the thousands of Canadians , this which little of people can the boasting .
I respect that .
he has also for that he there has of the competition on the market of the newspapers to the Canada .
I am of notice that this is a honour for the Canada if the Prime Minister Tony Blair , of the Kingdom - U , has recommended the appointment Mr. Black to the House of the Lords , to as of fine and of Lord not héréditaire .
he is regrettable that the Prime Minister Blair has from his recommendation and I hope that he songera soon to circumstance the recommendation Mr. Black .
the Hon. the Speaker Acting :
Senator Cools , I must you attention that the period of time who you is granted for to your statement is has .
however , you be continue if you in are the Authorized and that the - this you is granted .
the Senator Cools :
thank , Honour Hon. .
I like have the Authorized of continue .
the Hon. the Speaker Acting :
the Authorized is - it granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator Cools :
thank , honourable senators .
the by of the press Lord Thompson and Black are all the two honour to the Canada , all as the former Prime Minister John Turner .
they witnessing all of the trade who , for of the centuries , have for to of the Canadians and to of the Britanniques , which I - even , white and black , of sit in the two Houses of the Parliament , to the Canada and Kingdom agree
honourable senators , the attitudes and the ' human are mystérieuses , all as the fragilité human .
that fact part of the condition human .
the spirit human is a roublard and the motivator the strings .
this pleasant of the condition human me has was proved of way poignante in a section on the confidence and the méchanceté Mr. Nickle , who has was prepared by a member of his family , James Travers .
in a section which in the edition of the 14 September 99 of the Toronto Star and who spoke of the battle Mr. Black for the allocations of the as of fine , Mr. Travers wrote :
in a access of despite and in the absence of the Prime Minister of the time , Robert Border , Nickle has presented to any steamship his resolution to the House of the Commons after have failed to to legislation the as of as to Daniel Gordon , the Pritchard of the University Queen s and the a - father ...
for the venger , Nickle has wanted the ensure that of other not could not obtain this that be had refused to his family .
his resolution Requesting that the king the abstienne of Crowshoe of the by to of the residents Canadian has was agreed by any the House emportée by the opinion public that he not partageait not .
the tricherie of Nickle is the because of a sure embarrassment in the family , since W . F . Nickle was the a - father of the s9ur of my great - mother .
the hon. Joan Fraser :
honourable senators , I have a question to for and , if the Senator Cools me the allows , a rectification to to .
I not think not that anyone can deny the accomplishments Mr. Black in the field of the edition .
however , if you étudiez the statements financial of the businesses that he control , you find that the number of jobs has decreased and not increased in the newspapers that he control , since that he in has fact the acquisition .
my question with the nature of the distinctions that , of after the Senator , he would appropriate that of the Canadians to of the on of governments foreign .
he there has a difference between the distinctions think Doctorates , as the as of as or the Legion of honour , and those who are of , who the receives a législateur of a country abroad .
the House of the Lords is a legislature legislative .
it not has can - be not as of power that our Senate , but we are recognize well whom for know that this not is not a something futile that of be législateur .
the hon. Senator with - it a difference between the two types of distinction and believe it that he there has place of the consider differently , the of that a cinquantaine of years have past since that a human active in the sector Canadian of the media has agreed the dignity of fine ?
I attention by example Mr. Kenneth Thompson has felt confirmed of an the as of the father to the Late of Lord Thompson .
the Senator Cools :
I thank the hon. Senator of his question .
in this who with the honours and the governments foreign , I wish to make that I not consider not the Queen of England as a government abroad .
I not cannot too insist that - with .
it is the Queen of the Canada , my Queen .
when I have fact my into to the Senate in 1984 , after have was escortée the long of this feat , I have ' the with on the Bible and I have came oath , and this is to this Queen that I have came the oath of with .
the Queen of the Canada not is not a government abroad .
I have can - be difficulty before the about of the hon. Senator .
if this is the case , I him cannot and of to of other Particulars .
of the honours are our all the time .
he there has of the Canadians who members in of the legislatures legislation across in the world .
the hon. Senator the will surely of a meeting of the IPU , to which we have attended all the two he there has few months , and where I have met of the citizens Canadian who members to of the legislatures legislation of some country baltes , I believe .
the House of the Lords is a Parliament , not a legislature legislative , and he there has a enormous difference between a legislature legislative and a Parliament .
the House of the Lords is a - institution .
it is a of the more ancient of the world .
this is can - be because that many of my friends " have sat to the House of the Lords , but I appartiens to the group of the Canadians who are many of respect for this House .
be me has unequal , when I was small daughter , to the Barbade , that when all the rest had failed , he former always the possible of in call to the House of the Lords .
I not at not to the movement who would that the be it people to brief completed the Houses high , there including the House of the Lords .
finally , for this who is of the honours , I say that they are countless .
he there has of the honours who clauses of the by and of other not .
he there has of the honours who which of the precedents , of other not .
he there has of the honours who clauses a rank , of other not .
he there has any a range of honours .
I urge the Senator to the insist to I for forward a proposal to on the study of the by Doctorates and the Eligibility of the Canadians to these by .
in this era modern where the be authority of the by héréditaires , I not think not that Majesty Majesty authority too of by héréditaires to the Canada .
I not have not succeeded to in find of new .
I have enumerated a number countless of by of chevaliers in my remarks .
the examples who me are immediately came to the spirit are clearly Lord Thompson him - even and , well heard , the former - Prime Minister of the Canada , Mr. R . B . Bennett , who , as we the know , has was appointed vicomte in 1941 .
clearly , be embrouille the things .
the fact is Mr. Black has was recommended for the peerage to life and he the is , that I , of a highest aspiration .
( on the motion of the Senator LeBreton , the debate is adjourned . )
Affairs foreign
Authorized to the Committee of clerical of the services
the hon. John B . Stewart , pursuant to the notice 2 November 99 , move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign be authorized to clerical the services of counsel , technical , employees of office or other elements necessary for to the bills of bill , the substance of bills of bill and the forecasts budget who him have was referred .
( the motion is agreed . )
Authorized to the Committee of to according his deliberations by the media of information electronic
the hon. John B . Stewart , pursuant to the notice 2 November 99 , move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign be authorized to to the with of his deliberations public by the media of information electronic , in disruption the least possible his business .
( the motion is agreed . )
( the Senate the adjourned to the Tuesday 16 November 99 , to 14 p.m. . )
debates of the Senate ( Hansard )
wondering Session , Session st ,
volume 6,401 , Issue 7
the Tuesday 16 November 99
the hon. Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker
table of the Contents
' ' '
the Act of 1968 amend the right pénal
the trentième anniversary of the Adopted
the Baxter father Emile Shoufani
the group of expert on the access to the data historic of the census
the Act on the languages official
the trentième anniversary of his proclamation
the program of Exchange of pages with the House of the Commons
Affairs routine
the budget of the Estimates of 99 - 2000
Tabled of the budget Supplementary ( A )
the community francophones and acadiennes outside Quebec
Tabled of the report on the deteriorating of the services in French
the adjournment
the budget of the Estimates of 99 - 2000
notice of motion Motion the Committee of the Finance national to study the budget Supplementary ( A )
notice of motion to referred of the credit 25a to the Committee Joint Standing of the languages official
notice of motion to referred of the credit 10a to the Committee Joint Standing of the Library of the Parliament
Affairs foreign
notice of motion Motion the Committee to until the date of Tabled of the report final on the amendment of the mandate of the Organization of the Treaty of the Atlantic North
PERIOD PERIOD question
the Solicitor General
the Service Canadian of the Intelligence of security - Position loss of documents classifiés - - review of the Committee of monitoring of the activities of the Intelligence of security
the justice
the possible of protect more the people against the violence
the Agriculture and the agroalimentaire
the crisis agricultural to the Manitoba and in Saskatchewan - Position possible of a program of credit agricultural
the Program of assistance in case of disaster linked to the income agricultural - - effectiveness of the program
the effectiveness of the programs of assistance - Position survival of the young farmers
the crisis agricultural to the Manitoba and in Saskatchewan - - Program of assistance in case of disaster linked to the income agricultural - - are paid to the claimants
the crisis agricultural to the Manitoba and in Saskatchewan - Request of visit of the Prime Minister
the environment
the Nova - Nova - Position responsibility of the with of the sites of PCB toxins - Request of response
the Defence national
the Alternative of the helicopters Sea King - Position possible of the credit - lease - Request of response
answers delayed to of the questions Oral
the Defence national
the West Scotia Regiment - Position appointment of a Colonel Honorary
the Affairs foreign
the new ambassador with of the Organization World of the trade - Position possible of a contract of consultation with the employer of the former ambassador - Request of Tabled of documents
the Nations overseeing
the disarmament nuclear - Position policy of the government opposite to the resolution of the New Agenda Coalition
the development of the resources human
the efforts been for increase the representation of the minorities visible
order DAY THE
bill of bill on the protection of the information personal and the documents electronic
second Reading - Continued of the debate
bill of bill of 99 for the implementation in implement of conventions tax
second Reading - Adjourned of the debate
the speech of the Throne
motion of Adopted of the Adresse in response - Continued of the debate
bill of bill on the Assent Royal
second Reading - Adjourned of the debate
the communities francophones and acadiennes outside Quebec
the deteriorating of the services in French - Inquiry - Adjourned of the debate
the SENATE
the Tuesday 16 November 99
the Senate is met to 14 p.m. , the Speaker the to the Chair .
prayers .
the Act of 1968 amend the right pénal
the trentième anniversary of the Adopted
the hon. Lucie pin :
honourable senators , that the Canadians and the may in be aware or not , the Adopted , the 14 May 1969 , of the Act of 1968 amend the right pénal , who légiférait on the contraception and the abortion procedure , has irrévocablement changed our lives .
the complications for the accouchements not were not few , and only the case the more serious the terminaient by a trajet on the been back of the voiture of the doctor until to the Hospital the more it and often , he was too later for save the bébé or for be a césarienne .
who was - he save , the bébé or the mother ?
the state also was very clear : the contraception was illégale , of even that the abortion .
opposite to the state and to the Church , the women not had no choice .
for many of between we who worked in gynéco - obstétrique , the quo quo was became unbearable and we have decided of work in favour of the change for give to the women the accessibility to the contraception .
the bill of bill C - 150 , more known under the behalf of " bill of bill omnibus " , has was adopted in 1969 .
he has accomplished well of the things for a myriad of people .
for an the expression of the former Prime Minister Pierre Elliott Trudeau , he has this the process revert to bouter the state outside of the Houses to stay of the people .
the remarkable sexual , the choice of ' of reproductive and the ébats amoureux were and relegated to the field private , to condition that that the it between adults consentants .
for the women , the prospects open were coming more major .
he was now possible of to of the choice .
the women acquéraient finally a minimum of control on their own life , which not the ; more to a series attainable of grossesses , of risks for the health and of children too many for their capabilities financial .
this new freedom has served of springboard for the many other freedoms and options who have amended the role of the women in our society : the believe of itself , the education , the employment , a Senators to the chapter and the accountability .
honourable senators , I am very proud of have could participate to this process and of have could see the real changes who the are opérés through to our efforts - efforts who vigorously to the time if empathize and if necessary .
he the is that of a of the businesses the more important of my life .
more important still , this anniversary proves a time of more that the change is possible , that the people can amend of the things in the life of is and that the determination and the passion can to of the wonders .
celebrate therefore and which tribute to all the citizens who have worked to the éclosion of the freedoms we of the bill of bill C - 150 .
the Baxter father Emile Shoufani
the hon. Pierre De De :
honourable senators , I have the honour of you to on of the visit recent to the Canada , 10 to the 25 October , of the Baxter father Emile Shoufani , steering of the Seminar St. - Joseph and of the school school of Nazareth , and curé of Nazareth , in Israel .
the father Shoufani , familièrement called Abouna Emile by all , be " father Emile " in Arab , is a man and a priest profoundly committed in the Church , the Church melkite currency Catholic , in his community Arab and in the country , Israel .
the father Shoufani was to the Canada the guest of the Centre of action volunteer Émilie Gamelin of Joliette , who had organized a forum international on " the unwelcome of the life and the ageing " , convention who has drew a assembled many and who has was a great success to all ways .
I like also thank the members of the clergé , who not have physically no effort for that this visit be couronnéede success .
during his visit to the Canada , the father Shoufani has had of the talks approfondis with a if great number of personalities that he me is impossible of the appoint all .
I me limiterai to mention the meetings with the personalities following : the Prime Minister of the Canada , the very hon. Jean Chr , the Speaker of the Senate , the hon. Gildas L . Molgat , the Minister of the Affairs foreign , the hon. Lloyd Axworthy , the senior officials of the Council private , be the Department of the Prime Minister , and that the diplomats of the Department of the Affairs foreign responsible of the Middle - East .
the father Shoufani has also by several conferences on the situation to the Middle - East , including before the Middle East Discussion Group , here even to the Parliament , and that before the Council of the relations international of Montreal .
he has also issue of the issues proprement church , including on " the future common of the Christian , of the musulmans and of the Jews " , to the University St. - Paul of Ottawa and before the community of Madonna House to Combermere , in Ontario , where he has met the former Archbishop of Galilée , Mgr Joseph Raya , a man over that I admire our .
the father Shoufani has also met the Archbishop of St. - Boniface , Mgr Antoine Hacault , and that the évêque of Joliette , Mgr Gilles Lussier .
the a of the times the more émouvants has without no doubt was the meeting of the father Shoufani with the very P Elliott Trudeau , the former Prime Minister of the Canada , who has dominé the scene policy of our country during as of years .
this meeting has had place to the time oùM. Trudeau performs ses80 years .
the father Shoufani not has up of work to réconcilier and to insist all the citizens of the country , Israel .
also has he met in our country a great number of Canadians of origin Arab , particularly those of Montreal and of Ottawa .
he has also met several personalities hall of the community Jewish Canadian , and that the Congress Jewish , section of the Quebec , and he has record visit to the school séfarade of language French of Montreal , the school Maimonide .
this that I is the more admirable in the father Shoufani , this is that the deep respect for the life not can be dissocié of his conviction that which we must we strive of improve the fate of all the people human and that human not has the right of we of the suffering to the other .
the approach positive of the father Shoufani in s of regulation of the problems is remarkable .
, - this is always prepared to to the Prime not .
he the reducing always of understand the dreams and the ideas of the other and of appreciation of the empathy to their regard .
the Hon. the Speaker :
Senator De De , your three minutes are period .
are - you the Authorized of continue ?
the Senator De De :
yes .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the Authorized is - it granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator De De :
honourable senators , Emile Shoufani is unborn to Nazareth in 1947 .
in as that pattern of origin Arab in the state of Israel , Emile Shoufani has past 52 years to to , in his life and the work , that he is possible of to a term to of the centuries of Opposition and of violence .
his life is a testament to the coexisting peaceful of the Jews , of the Arabes , of the musulmans and of the Christian in a region who has desperately need of a model of peace and of reconciliation .
Emile Shoufani has learned by the through of tragedies personal the sense real of the shirts and of the respect for the other .
he is a model for all .
the great - father and the uncle have was killed during the War of 1948 , during of the déportation of villageois to Eilabun .
his great - mother , who has lost the husband and a son , has unequal the shirts to the small - son .
he has up to the within of the minority Arab who is remains in the new state of Israel .
the difficulties which he has should to opposite to the over of this period of his life have unequal to Emile that the humility is a under , but not the poverty .
rebel during the teenager to the Seminar St. - Joseph , Emile prit profoundly conscience of the value of the life all in ressentant the need of to a difference .
he décida of become priest .
then that he vivait to Paris , of 1964 to 1971 , to the on of his studies in philosophical and covetousness , Emile Shoufani has read Treblinka , by Jean - François Steiner .
that the has led to in learn more on the Holocaust , to visit Dachau and he is income in him after have - a changing spiritual , in to a point of view all to fact different .
ordered priest of the Church Catholic currency in 1971 , he has said this in the Prime sermon :
very earlier to the over of the Department , in as that pasteur of various villages of Galilée , Abouna Emile is became known as a médiateur , not only for the regulation of the differences between the communities religious Christian , mulsumane and druze , but in as that as advocate of a real coexisting revert not simply to live Coast to Coast , but to really share a life common .
when the évêque him has children the leadership of the Seminar and school school St. - Joseph , in 1976 , Abouna Emile the was already win the confidence of all the people of the region .
the fact that of many parents of many communities religious him confient their child is the magnitude of the confidence and of the respect that he the is win in these will .
in 1976 , the Seminar St. - Joseph had 200 on and was on the point of close .
the father Emile has decided of met the challenge , of try of maintain the school met with a will stipulates by his faith .
he has tried of throughout two objectives .
he the was all of first of replicating of St. - Joseph a school of first class tour to the excellence .
he has then sensibilisé a new generation of students to their stories and identités separate , all in obtenant of their on a commitment total to the regard of their integration to the state of Israel .
his first battle has consisté to draw a staff qualified and dynamic partageant his vision that which the school must not only éduquer , but also expand any the human , " the one in as that human from to the Prime plan " .
the second achievement révolutionnaire has consisté to into the school in a institution Joint open to all the religions , to the two sexes and to different crops .
that him :
St. - Joseph not is not a school Christian who accept the musulmans and the druzes , but a school where the Christian , the musulmans and the druzes live together .
of our with the body professoral , Emile Shoufani anyone constantly to to of the standards of education high .
is this that said the father Shoufani :
we must form the 20 . to 30 . academic Arab which the country has need .
10 years more later , the school is in legislation of support the competition of the best schools in Israel .
today today , the school that 1 200 on and , each year , of 120 à130 on of the two sexes receive their had .
Emile Shoufani country always the even vigour révolutionnaire that he there has 24 years .
he continues of the preoccupied of the appointments to the work and to the board of Administration of the school .
in 1989 , after have established the points strong and the reputation of the school on the plan school , the father Emile has decided of the spend to the second objective , be a bill - pilot of dialogue with the " Lyada " , a school Jewish of Prime plan relevant of the university misuse of Jerusalem , to of " give to our young the tools which they have need for ensure their full integration in the state of Israel all in conservant their identity . "
today today , the mission of the Seminar St. - Joseph is to ensure the " education to the service of the peace " .
the father Shoufani has said often :
I believe as to this country to the history long and variée , in quality of Arabe , of pattern and of Israélien .
these differences not me an not of problems .
through to my faith , I have a vision Universal me can of transcender the limits ability and of better listen my brothers .
in ending , I add that the father Shoufani was with during his visit in our country by Ms Soad Haddad , that I have the privilege of know since more of 10 years . Ms
Soad Haddad is remarkable in the legislation where , as that it can the remember , it has always have that it ruling more to the great community human that to a family particular .
the existence has always was for it linked to the sense of be in mission .
this is this who the has took to the been completely to of the spend to his tasks current .
it working Coast to Coast with the father Emile since more of 20 years to the service of the Church melkite and of the community Arab of the state of Israel .
this said , honourable senators , we have essentially two options .
the a is of insist on the differences between the people human , this who is easy .
we can see to what conflict tragic that has led .
the other , to the contrary , is of to the focus on this who closest the people of different groups socioéconomiques , of religions separate and to the history different .
this is many more difficult .
however , this is without no doubt the option the more generous , the better circumstances to the time modern and the for which all the people well we should the fight .
this is the seaway that the parents of the father Shoufani him have enseignée , the who the has guided all to the long of his life .
he is rare of meet a man as the father Shoufani , with of a such vision and of a such courage .
this was a great honour for I , who am unborn in of country , of the with and that the tireless , the very efficient Ms Soad Haddad , during their visit to the Canada .
the group of expert on the access to the data historic of the census
the hon. Lorna Milne :
honourable senators , I have the great happy of draw the attention of this House on a announcement made recently by the hon. John Manley , Minister of the Industry and Minister responsible of Statistics Canada .
Friday last , the Minister Manley has announced the creation of a group of expert on the access to the data historic of the census .
the group in question will report to the Minister of here the 31 May 2000 and recommend a approach can of establish a fair community between the need of protect the life privacy and the requests of access of the disquieting , historians and genealogists to the data historic of census .
as the honourable senators the know , I have fact pressure to the Parliament in this sense he there has now more of a year .
I am aspects that the Minister has adopted a approach achieving to the regard of this question and has appointed a group of expert composed of five people are respected , which our former colleague , the hon. Lorna remarked .
he is to hope that this group will of the means innovative for succeed a happy compromise between the imperatives of the protection of the life privacy and those of the maltreatment of the heritage Canadian .
the Minister Manley has was sensitive to my representations ; he has took good note of the correspondence of the disquieting , historians and genealogists Canadian , and he just of take the first provisions for answer to our concerns , including in incorporate this group .
this is that the result of the work accomplished by the associations of historians and of disquieting who have sensibilisé the opinion public to the question and him have for of express the notice .
I am impatiente of take knowledge of the report that this group we will to the new year .
the Act on the languages official
the trentième anniversary of his proclamation
the hon. Jean - Robert Gauthier :
honourable senators , I like out the trentième anniversary of the Act on the languages official , which the proclamation has had place the 1 July 1969 .
this bill , who is seconded by a great majority of Canadians , has for of chamber of the progress to the within of the service public in this who has with to the language of services and to the representation equitable .
he must however recognize that he we rest many of move to although in this who has with to the language of work .
he me must out , for explain the success of the bill , the contribution important of the Commissariat to the languages official , of the commissioners who the there are succeeded and of the Committee Joint Standing on the languages official of the House of the Commons and of the Senate .
I ask to all the Canadians of continue to respect this extraordinary over of the country that is the duality linguistic .
the Act on the languages official authority to the English and to the French their status , their rights and privileges in as that languages of the Parliament and of the government of the Canada .
the provinces are invitées to be generous to the minority linguistic .
few - few the are of good and , of other the are from the those .
I am well aware of the new efforts who must be by for as the equity linguistic across to the country and this , in the spirit and the letter of the bill and , particularly , in the respect of the laws who we cover .
the program of Exchange of pages with the House of the Commons
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , before of from to the next question placed to the order of the day , I like you to the pages who have bénéficié of the program of Exchange of pages and who we come of the House of the Commons .
Rachelle Bédard is in Science political to the Faculty of the Science Social of the University of Ottawa .
it is native of Gatineau , to the Quebec .
marie - Claire Raymond is placed of Penetanguishene , in Ontario .
marie - Claire on of the studies to the Faculty of Science Social of the University of Ottawa and that the spécialiser in Science policy and in Urban .
Affairs routine
the budget of the Estimates of 99 - 2000
Tabled of the budget Supplementary ( A )
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) tabled the Estimates Supplementary ( A ) for the year the ending the 31 March 2000 .
the community francophones and acadiennes outside Quebec
Tabled of the report on the deteriorating of the services in French
the hon. Jean - Maurice Simard :
honourable senators , I like table the report who fact of of the structure who prevails currently opposite - to - opposite the development and the throughout of the communities francophones and acadiennes , of the deteriorating step , of the désengagement of the governments to the over of the 10 past years and of the loss of accessibility of the services in French .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I not can not accept the Tabled of a document of a Senator to least of a consent unanimous of the on of the Senate .
is - this that he there has consent unanimous ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the adjournment
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the section 58 ( 1 ) p.m. ) of the Rules , I move :
that , when the Senate the adjourns today today , he remains adjourned until to tomorrow , the Wednesday 17 November 99 , to 13 p.m. 30 .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the leave is - it granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
the budget of the Estimates of 99 - 2000
notice of motion Motion the Committee of the Finance national to study the budget Supplementary ( A )
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I give notice that tomorrow , the mercredi17 November 99 , I move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Finance national be authorized to study , to of in to report , the Estimates expenditures in the Estimates Supplementary ( A ) for the year the ending the 31 March 2000 , to the exception of the credit 10a of the Parliament and of the credit 25a of the Council private .
notice of motion to referred of the credit 25a to the Committee Joint Standing of the languages official
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the ( 58 ( 1 ) f ) of the Rules , I move :
that the Committee Joint Standing of the languages official be authorized to study the Estimates expenditures to the credit 25a of the Council private content in the Estimates Supplementary of the Estimates ( A ) , for the year the ending the 31 March 2000 ; and
that a message be sent to the House of the Commons for the in inform .
notice of motion to referred of the credit 10a to the Committee Joint Standing of the Library of the Parliament
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I give notice that tomorrow , the mercredi17 November 99 , I move :
that the Committee Joint Standing of the Library of the Parliament be authorized to study the Estimates expenditures to the credit 10a of the Parliament content in the Estimates Supplementary of the Estimates ( A ) for the year the ending the 31 March 2000 ; and
that a message be sent to the House of the Commons for the in inform .
Affairs foreign
notice of motion Motion the Committee to until the date of Tabled of the report final on the amendment of the mandate of the Organization of the Treaty of the Atlantic North
the hon. John B . Stewart :
honourable senators , I give notice that tomorrow , the Wednesday 17 November 99 , I move :
that , by derogation to the order adopted by the Senate the Thursday 14 October 99 , the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign , authorized to to for in to report the ramifications for the Canada : 1 ) . of the amendment made to the mandate of the Organization of the Treaty of the Atlantic North ( NATO ) and to the role of the Canada in the NATO since the disbanding of the NATO of Warsaw , of the end of the War Cold and of the into recent in the NATO of the expulsions , of the Poland and of the Republic tchèque ; and 2 ) . of the - of the peace , particularly the ability of the Canada of there participate under the auspices of not any what body international which the Canada fact part , be authorized to to the report final to the more later the 15 December 99 ; and
that the Committee divested the powers necessary to the Electronic of the results of the study contained in the report final , and this until to the 24 December 99 ; and
that the Committee be authorized , notwithstanding the practices considered , to table the report with of the Clerk of the Senate , if the Senate not seat not , and that obedience report be being have was tabled to the Senate .
PERIOD PERIOD question
the Solicitor General
the Service Canadian of the Intelligence of security - Position loss of documents classifiés - - review of the Committee of monitoring of the activities of the Intelligence of security
the hon. ë A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I have a question to the intention of the Leader of the government to the Senate .
the media across to the Canada have reported a unfortunate incident which had was victim a agente of the SCRS who had left a document to uniqueness secret on the been back of his voiture then that it oblige to a part of hockey to Toronto .
the Minister could - he we say what was the rating of security there to this document ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I thank the hon. Senator of this question .
he has course was were to the knowledge of the public by the media , and by the on confirmed by the Minister to the House of the Commons , that a manquement enough serious to the protocol of security had was made by a used of the SCRS .
the leadership of the SCRS examine now this case .
as to the rating of security there to the document in question , I have determine if I then obtain this information for the hon. Senator .
the Senator Kinsella :
I thank the hon. Senator of the Services to the to .
he the is of know if this document was very secret , secret or " .
the Parliament has institué the Committee of monitoring of the activities of the Intelligence of security .
the Parliament has of to this Committee Civil the mandate legal of monitor the activities of the SCRS .
is - he true that this is only by the seaway of the newspapers that the chairman of the CSARS has heard speak of this manquement , then that the Solicitor General in had had knowledge since a sure time - before even that the newspapers not in do of ?
the Senator Boudreau :
the honourable senators understand that I not cannot not normally how the inspecteur General of the SCRS has was ' to the aware of this case , or how the CSARS the has was .
however , the Minister has said to the other place that he in had was informed he there has two or three weeks .
I think that he is enough clear that the CSARS in has was informed someone time more later .
in fact , I then say to the honourable senators that the SCRS and the inspecteur General of the SCRS are inquiry in this case to the time where I you about .
of more , the CSARS has him also by a review to this regard of his own initiative .
as the honourable senators , I am anxious of obtain a report to this about , and I be happy of in to know the details .
the hon. Jean - Claude Rivest :
the Minister could - he we say the he there a rule of the services Confidences as to the handling of the documents ?
is - this that a human or a officer can all simply the expressed with of the documents ?
there he a procedure who not would presumably not was followed in this case ?
the Minister we said that the government federal essayera of to inquiry for see exactly this who the is past .
the Minister can - he be more enable as to the nature of the inquiry to come opposite to this malencontreux incident ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , he is obvious that he there has had offence to the security .
the human in question will Before to a inquiry seeing to the time by the SCRS and by the CSARS .
as must the know the hon. Senator , the CSARS is the Committee independent of monitoring unto who has by this task .
I am sure that these two agencies the jobs of their responsibilities with any the as and the speed The and that they chemically a report more detailed of the events who the are products .
the Senator Rivest :
honourable senators , course , he there has of the inconvénients on the plan Economy .
the Canada and the Service Canadian of the Intelligence of security To with of very many country to across the world .
the Minister and the government are - they aware that this incident risk of entacher very seriously the credibility of the services Confidences Canadian ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , fortunately , this incident seems be isolated .
well that he be regrettable and that be not can deny the serious of these events , I hope that they not will not of impact sensibles on our relations with the other country , particularly our allies .
the Senator Kinsella :
honourable senators , the Minister could - he we say why he has was two weeks sacrifice to the Solicitor General for prevent the Committee who , that the Minister , will now to inquiry on this case ?
why expect two weeks ?
not there has he not a sense of responsibility in the spirit of the government when they are ' to the aware of a case as the - this ?
the Parliament has created a Committee responsible of investigate on this such of situation and yet the Department of the Solicitor General has left traîner the things for two weeks sacrifice .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I can nothing say of precise on the question of the will because I not know not exactly when the information has was remaining .
however , I believe understand that the inspecteur General of the SCRS has immediately took the case in with and the in ' as he the must .
the role of the is of investigate on of the activities as those that exhibition the inspecteur General in the framework of this case .
I not know not exactly to what time the CSARS interviendrait .
the hon. Roch Bolduc :
honourable senators , he there has few years , we have had of the problems on to a identifies of the budget of the Minister of the Finance .
finally , all the world was to the aware and the Minister has should deal a speech quick .
there has he a procedure government who assure the confidentiality of the documents ?
the he there a procedure , has it several degrees of quality ?
by example , we know all that the budget of the Minister of the Finance and the questions of security national are very Confidences .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I am sure that he there various classifications of security for the documents of the SCRS .
I not know not in detail all the levels of security , but I will of my better for obtain this Intelligence for the Senator .
the Senator Bolduc :
honourable senators , I will to to the for because that recently , we we are left say , to the about of the transactions with the Americans in s of Defence , that we were more or least fiables .
the Americans not would more transiger with we and we to some for for of the Mothballed for the Defence because that we have the reputation of not be not enough fiables .
this is clumsily of the to say that by our neighbours , particularly when we involvement with them of good relations in General .
the Minister could - he to to the attention of the Minister of the Defence national this question of the more high importance ?
we must to someone something to this about because you can imagine that a such case not assistance not the relations between our two country .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I am all to fact prepared to would the concerns of the senators as to the nature of this incident .
I Dolly the importance that overwhelmingly the senators to this with series of events .
however , I not am not sure of share the notice expressed by the hon. Senator in the preamble of his question .
the question of the ITAR fact part of a category different .
he is certainly disturbing of see that a information or a document sufficient not is not manipulé with all the precautions necessary as this was the case for this document .
a inquiry is in over , seeing to the time by the SCRS to the Economy and by the CSARS .
I am sure that the measures corrective who the do will taken and that the human in because will handled of way appropriate .
the justice
the possible of protect more the people against the violence
the hon. Herbert O . Sparrow :
honourable senators , I have a question to for to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
the Canadians of all the country are concerned by the violence who has over between the young .
a other concern is implementation in obviously by a section who has was released recently by a newspaper of Vancouver on the fact that a other case of saucissonnage in British - British had cost the life to a lady citizen .
he seems that these people not can nothing to for the protect against these crimes .
I not wish not to raise the question of the control of the weapons to gun , but he was a time where the community agricultural the protégeait to the way of fusils of hunting .
be not the attaquait not to the farmers of afraid of be one .
the Code criminal banned of the serve of brouillard of poivre for the protect .
the people of the communities rural and , now , the people of the regions urban not have not of other means of the protect and they are absolutely terrifiés by all these stories of saucissonnage , of effraction , of rape and of murder which they while speak .
if the Minister not knows not the matter for the moment , can - be could - he in discuss with his colleagues , including the Minister of the Justice .
of the measures are - they in preparedness , who could help the people which be is the pleasant to the protect they - same ?
well of the people not have not the means of entourer their ownership of clôtures or of have of the guard of security .
these people are left to they - same and they are the victims of the criminals of our society .
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , the problems described by the Senator Sparrow we confrontation all of indignation .
the Code criminal allows to the courts of the to very get to the authors of these crimes .
I understand however the concern expressed by the Senator .
the problem with can - be in part to the evolution of the relations family , to the over of the past decades .
, a time , a family deals or agricultural could be become a family extended , if well that the people seniors were least often livrées to they - same , far of the other members of the family .
this is a proposition , but I believe that , if we comparions the situation current to the of he there has 30 years , we constaterions that he there has today today many more of people seniors who live only to the place of to part of a family extended .
the protection that the Senator ask is can - be , for this only reason , more necessary of our days .
I have took knowledge of data statistics that which the number of crimes violent would to the - in the together of the public .
he must always see these data of a i criticism , but he is sure that , for the victims agressées in they , particularly when he the is of people seniors , the problem remains serious .
I will certainly to on to my colleagues of the cabinet of the concern and of the question of the hon. Senator .
the Agriculture and the agroalimentaire
the crisis agricultural to the Manitoba and in Saskatchewan - Position possible of a program of credit agricultural
the hon. Leonard J . Gustafson :
honourable senators , I like for to the Leader of the government to the Senate a question on the crisis agricultural , who seems the only of day in day .
the 2 November 99 , I have asked to the Minister if the government was prepared to to of the identify to the credit agricultural to of come in assistance to some farmers who are unable of a their debts .
the Leader of the government of the Senate has seemed well welcome my suggestion , in taxfiler including that these questions were already the subject of discussions , but that he not wanted not violation the confidentiality of the cabinet .
knows - be , to this at - this , this that the government has the intention of to in this who with the credit agricultural ?
is well a field where the government could give the example to the Banking and to the Cooperatives of credit .
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I regret of not power give of response more specific for the time .
since the last time that we have issue this question , the government federal has " a amount Supplementary of 170 million of $ to the program ACRA to of to a assistance from to the farmers .
, this time - that , we not know not to the fair how s respond the governments provincial .
we not know not the they accept of would their on , correspondent to 40 per of this amount , the government federal stimulates 60 per of the funds , as he the had fact for the program distinct .
, least that the situation has changed recently , be me has informed that the provinces not had not agreed of would more of money .
the governments of the Saskatchewan and of the Manitoba have all two said officially that they refusaient of increase their contribution financial .
the hon. Senator knows can - be if the situation has ground since .
I have of the difficulty to understand this reaction .
the two first ministers provincial are came to Ottawa for describe the serious of the situation and the need of a assistance immediate .
in fact , to the over of the few five past years , the assistance that the two governments provincial have granted to their farmers has was substantially reduced .
when they have required with insistance that the government federal ruined , he has paid 170 million of $ in the program .
this not was can - be not all this that the farmers want , but this was recognize a legislation positive .
however , he seems that the reactions of the governments of the Manitoba and of the Saskatchewan have left to severely .
the Senator Gustafson :
honourable senators , the Minister not does not to my question to the about of the credit agricultural , who is a responsibility of the government federal .
this responsibility not is not shared with the governments provincial .
he the is of funds advanced by the government federal .
what that he in be , in this who with the program ACRA , in the region where I lives , the people who receive of the funds in the framework of this program are financially to the comfortable .
the farmers who have need of money not in receive not .
I like that be slow a inquiry for know who receives the money .
the families poor who have need of the money not the receive not .
this is this that me have said of the farmers of any the Saskatchewan .
for to to the Corporation of the credit agricultural , the government will he a relief of the debt post with of this society ?
the Corporation of the credit agricultural not is not a responsibility shared with the provinces ; it is only of the government federal .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I not trying not of éluder the question of the Senator .
I not can there answer today today .
of any obviously , this matter is between the hands of the Minister .
as that I be in legislation of give a response clear , I be very happy of the to .
honourable senators , the two governments provincial in because have uphill expressed , to Ottawa and , , a his concern for the farmers .
they not are not of apologize when they forward that the program not works not that well .
we the know .
the senators of the two sides the have should during the debate Special given to the ask of the hon. Senator Gustafson .
however , the program not has not was designed by the only government federal , he has was public in cooperation with the two governments who now , after their intervention " , say of the Services guarantee .
the they not aimaient not the program , they have could propose of the improvements .
the Minister of the Agriculture trying of improve the effectiveness of the program .
however , the fact that , - this not be not perfect not apologize no the conduct of these two first ministers .
the Program of assistance in case of disaster linked to the income agricultural - - effectiveness of the program
the hon. Herbert O . Sparrow :
honourable senators , the government of the Saskatchewan has spent 200 million of $ to the program , but this amount not is not spent because the government federal not débourse not his on of the money .
he there has therefore of the are in Awaiting , but the government federal not has no plan who would of distribute this money .
the Leader of the government to the Senate has spoke of a amount additionnel of 170 million of $ .
this amount is heartened to all the Canada and not to the only region affected by the problem which he is question .
the Department him - even has said that he would some are to the grants already awarded .
by therefore , he not just not in assistance to the majority of the farmers who not have nothing received and which the requests , in some case , are empilées on the pupitres since six months .
the governments of the Saskatchewan and of the Manitoba have paid the are that they were help to the program .
the Leader has said that the governments had agreed of the to .
be we said without has that the governments and the organizations agricultural the are heard on this point .
however , this not is not the case .
this who had was proposed has was agreed , but the program ' in implement was well different and the provinces have said that this not was not the program that they had approved .
the Federation Canadian of the agriculture and all the farmers have said that this not was not the program agreed to the origin .
they will the against to this program because the money not is not paid to those who in have need .
Mr. the Minister , you can certainly say that we in have discussed to the Senate and with the important delegation who is came we meet and that that not works not .
the Committee Senate of the agriculture and the Committee Standing of the agriculture of the House of the Commons know that such is the case , but we persistons to say that this not is not of our fault .
the Leader of the government to the Senate will he to the Minister of the Agriculture of we say finally if the government will to someone something , for that we can we withdraw dignement ?
of the Senators :
hear !
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , as the senators of the two sides the have said to the over of the debate of emergency , the program not works not well and must be amended .
be in has agreed generally and the message has was clear sent .
I not like not let hear that this not was not the case .
honourable senators , I say that he there had that a opportunity for the provinces of to a contribution important .
all the senators can well think that 170 million of $ , this not was not enough , but this is a contribution concrete and , to my notice , the two provinces have should in provide as .
the effectiveness of the programs of assistance - Position survival of the young farmers
the hon. Terry Stratton :
honourable senators , my question the is to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
the farmers suffering in dead now .
those who are more seniors and better fortunate can from to the across of the crisis because that they are through since long .
those who in tears are the young who want preserve the business é .
we are in are of the defeat slowly , but surely .
a year after the other , they suffering in dead and are bankrupt .
, the place of their say one that he not there will more of assistance , that they will people the they are unable of survive by their own means , the government the assistance to the that - piecemeal for keep alive a false hope .
this is unreasonable .
the Minister think he that this is a way equitable of deal the young farmers Canadian ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , we should to our possible for help the young farmers who are in a situation criticism .
we should can - be speak with of the Minister to the about of the matter of the Corporation of the credit agricultural .
this is a problem of size who , as the honourable senators the know , is with to the over of the products of basic on the market world and to the fact that our farmers not have not right to of the rules of the at field .
this is a problem of size who has of the impact to the has international and which he will be a solution to various levels .
my colleagues me are the insurance that of the efforts are been and that of the discussions are in over not only with the Minister of the Agriculture and the Department , but also on the scene international , and this , to of with the problem more broader that is , between other things , the absence of rules of the at field .
the crisis agricultural to the Manitoba and in Saskatchewan - - Program of assistance in case of disaster linked to the income agricultural - - are paid to the claimants
the hon. Mira Spivak :
honourable senators , my question the is to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
well that the hon. Minister has fact of the efforts meritorious for to the situation , they not reflect always not the emergency of the situation or the crisis current .
this is very well of speak of the modest are who have was awarded or of the situation World , but he there has now emergency .
in response to of the emergency , he must adopt of the solutions more like , by example , in eliminating the ACRA and in conclusion of the measures completely different for come in assistance to those who are in the need .
he there has to little close a week , of the people of the community agricultural to the Manitoba me have said that about 59p. per of the requests made by the farmers had was so .
the Minister knows - he if the situation is in are of the improve , that given of the restructuring of the ACRA who seems have had place ?
with what speed the things can - they the improve ?
the time leadership and the situation the détériore without has .
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I then give to her the Senator the insurance that in response to the problem General and to the question particular that it raises on the percentage of requests so , we now the evolution of the situation daily .
I not know not if of new data valid are available since that the measures of recovery have was taken , but I will certainly me information and would the ask of the hon. Senator .
the Senator Spivak :
what period of probation has be provided for this new restructuring before that the government note that the at not in worth not the chandelle ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , as this is the case for all program , the Minister responsible do the evolution of the situation and , in this case - this , I am sure that he do the evolution daily .
I hope that the results the will feel enough quickly .
I not then say when he overcome that of other changes are necessary or that the program works better now .
this would difficult for I of say when he will this decision .
however , I not doubt not that he do the evolution of the situation to the day the day .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , the period of the questions is now completed .
however , the Senator Gustafson wish for a question .
is - this a question supplementary to a question before ?
the hon. Leonard J . Gustafson :
the Hon. the Speaker :
please for your question .
the crisis agricultural to the Manitoba and in Saskatchewan - Request of visit of the Prime Minister
the hon. Leonard J . Gustafson :
honourable senators , that given of the crisis , the Leader of the government to the Senate can - he would to the Prime Minister a ask of go see by him - even the serious of the situation ?
the west of the Canada deserves certainly that the Prime Minister strictly see by him - even the serious of the situation .
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I bring certainly this ask to the Prime Minister .
... more later ...
the environment
the Nova - Nova - Position responsibility of the with of the sites of PCB toxins - Request of response
the hon. Lowell Murray :
honourable senators , he there has few weeks , I have asked a question to the Leader of the government on the Position of the government regarding the responsibility to the regard of the sites miniers abandoned to the Cape - Cape .
the bill of bill C - 11 , regarding the disbanding of Devco , is now to the study to the House of the Commons , and I like have a response to this question before that this bill of bill not so here .
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I be happy of answer to the question of the Senator .
, a time , the people were very happy of pay for have this such of notice legal .
this was , to my notice , the great time .
I have seen a notice legal to this about .
that this notice legal , that I be happy of share with the Senator and any other human interested , the bill of bill not will no impact on the responsibility existante .
I can give to the Senator of the information many more détaillées to this about , this that I will .
the Senator Murray :
I to know the Position of the government regarding the responsibility to the regard of these sites miniers abandoned .
the Senator Boudreau :
I can say to the Senator that the government would well that someone a of other has the responsibility .
however , I not know not if I can be on that .
... more later ...
the Defence national
the Alternative of the helicopters Sea King - Position possible of the credit - lease - Request of response
the hon. Gerry Germain :
honourable senators , my question the is also to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
the 4 November , I have asked a question regarding the possible of replace the Sea King in leasing of the helicopters , and the Leader of the government was the information with of the Minister to this regard .
will - I a response soon or have - I for of new the question tomorrow to the period of the questions ?
I am a entorse to the Rules , Honour Hon. , for power for my question .
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , to of speed the process , a response will forwarded .
answers delayed to of the questions Oral
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I have of the answers delayed to four questions .
the first has with to a question who has was allowance 2 November 99 to the Senate by the hon. Senator Forrestall to the about of the regiment West Scotia Scotia and of the appointment of a Colonel Honorary .
the second with a question who has was raised the 3 November 99 to the Senate by the hon. Senator Kelleher to the about of a contract of consultation with the employer of a former ambassador .
the third has with to a question who has was raised the 3 November 99 to the Senate by the hon. Senator Roche to the about of the disarmament nuclear , of the policy of the government opposite to the resolution of the New Agenda Coalition .
the fourth with a question who has was raised to the Senate by the hon. Senator Oliver to the about of the efforts been for increase the representation of the minorities visible to the within of the government .
the Defence national
the West Scotia Regiment - Position appointment of a Colonel Honorary
the West Scotia Regiment that among the units sincerely of the Réserve Canadian .
as all the units of the Réserve , he is a part important of the team of the Defence of the Canada .
in this who with the appointment of a new Colonel Honorary , the Security of a human has was definitive .
this recommendation is now to the study .
the Affairs foreign
the new ambassador with of the Organization World of the trade - Position possible of a contract of consultation with the employer of the former ambassador - Request of Tabled of documents
( response to the question raised by the honorableJames F . Kelleher the 3 November 99 )
not , Mr. Weekes is in break without balance of the MAÉCI and not has no contract with the Department .
he the would of a conflict of interests and Weekes knows very well the rules of Ethics to this effect .
2 . No , APCO not has no contract with the government of the Canada
the Nations overseeing
the disarmament nuclear - Position policy of the government opposite to the resolution of the New Agenda Coalition
( response to the question raised by the honorableDouglas Roche the 3 November 99 )
after have led of the consultation depth of senior level of way very intensive , the Canada has decided of maintain the forbearance in this who with the resolution on the " Nouvel order of the day " of this year .
in the together , our decision not was not a response to the text of the resolution .
the text of this year has ground substantially and Right by report to this that we have examined the year last .
the government of the Canada the rallie in addition of way general to the assessment made by the New Agenda Coalition of the strong pressure orchestrated on the regime of disarmament and of not - proliferation nuclear harm on the TNP .
, our notice however , a action concerted to to with the many problems with which the regime of disarmament and of not - proliferation nuclear is to the taken nécessitera the support the more broad possible .
the States will of weapons nuclear and their partners and alliances must the Services for that the be can to the objectives of the resolution on the Nouvel order of the day .
for our on , we go continue of cooperate with all the States of it common to the within of the representations appropriate to of significant a support increased in favour of the too of progress in this who with the objectives key of the regime of not - proliferation and of disarmament nuclear .
in his quality of member of the NATO , the Canada has took note with satisfaction of the increase of the number of States members of the NATO not will of weapons nuclear who have adopted a Position common to the opportunity of the vote of this year .
we will before a new time of the questions i by the resolution on the Nouvel order of the day to the Conference of review of the TNP who will place the spring next .
the government of the Canada the efforcera of ensure to this that the Conference heritage the Treaty and rétablisse a dynamic in view of the too of his objectives .
the development of the resources human
the efforts been for increase the representation of the minorities visible
( response to the question raised by the Donald H . Oliver the 3 November 99 )
the data regarding the minorities visible in the service public federal are based on the principle of statement volunteered of the employee .
the data available the more recent indicate that on a total of 248 employees the the self - identified in the groups and levels EX - 04 and EX - 05 ( availability - ministers assistants ) , five of between them or 2.0 for cent the are self - identified as members of the group of the minorities visible .
the data for the under - ministers or the people appointments by the Governor in board not are not available .
order DAY THE
bill of bill on the protection of the information personal and the documents electronic
second Reading - Continued of the debate
the order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Kirby , seconded by the hon. Senator Lewis , Honourable to the second Reading of the bill of bill C - 6 , Act to to facilitate and to promote the trade Electronic in perpetuate the information personal collected , used or releases in some circumstances , in for the use of means electronic for bring or like of the information and of the transactions and in amend the Act on the evidence to the Canada , the Act on the were regulatory and the Act on the review of the laws .
the Hon. the Speaker :
hon. Senator Murray , before that you not commenciez , I remind that our Rules you allocates 45 minutes in as that Prime orator to take the speak after the author of the bill of bill .
but you have already prepared de37 minutes .
he you rest therefore eight minutes .
the hon. Lowell Murray :
I will to of my better .
honourable senators , he the is of the second half of a speech that I have began to deal the 4 November in stamped the debate , to the behalf of the Opposition loyal of Majesty Majesty , on the bill of bill C - 6 .
before of enter in the great of the about , I like correct a inexactitude that I have commise in my speech of the 4 November . I was of the efforts who have was facts in the past by various parties political in view of at in the Charter Canadian of the rights and freedom a right to the life privacy .
I have should by mistake Mr. Chr had was the Minister of the Justice of the government Trudeau before the election of 1979 .
however , he not in is nothing .
Mr. . Chr is became Minister of the Justice when the government Trudeau has took the power in 1980 .
always in my speech of the 4 November , I have open a parenthèse to about of the uniqueness " of the data of the census .
the question has was raised more earlier today today during of the statement of senators of our colleague , the Senator Milne .
I have spoke of the campaign in over , who could have the amendment of the bill proposed by shore Wilfrid Laurier , thereby the confidentiality of the information personal and to uniqueness private collected to the opportunity of a census .
, the time , I me was opposed by principle to this that the bill be amended .
since , of the Canadians indignés by this decision me have wrote - and even , in some case , these people were as - essentially of the people that the généalogie interest .
my response , that I prejudice to this day , had was the next : that be we please these circumventing of protection , and we the Working , the he is asked to the Parliament of amend the bill .
but , on the principle General , I prejudice my decision .
I believe that should remain confidentiels all information personal and private , collected by the government in the context of a census , on the faith of a bill thereby the confidentiality of the these information .
I believe , by principle , that we should avoid of amend the bill to the lightly .
after all , to the over of the years , the questions raised in the framework of the marked are were of more in more indiscrètes , and this not is not because that the people décèdent that the government can the esteemed administration of the obligation of respect the confidentiality promise to these people .
this is my opinion , honourable senators .
in of the be such that the Senate , we should we to on our guard opposite to the attempts overcoming of some historians , experts in Science Social and journalists of we persuade that the right of was and of bring of the information should the just on all the other rights learning .
this is why I have préconisé that we envisagions of at a right to the protection of the information personal in the Charter Canadian of the rights and freedoms .
I acknowledge fully that we have here a conflict or a use between two principles legitimate , the a the the access to the information and the other the protection of the information personal .
as for all other conflict of principles , he must attempt of find a fair balance .
this use of principles or of values more also in the bill of bill which we are before .
as I me am committed to the to , I have met a sure number of parties interested or agri by this bill of bill or I have had with they of the conferences phone or still I have read carefully their you .
I not have not changed of notice to the about of this bill of bill .
I not take not your time today today in trying of be the testimony that they will invited to give before the Committee , I in am sure .
however , I like attention some of the major questions on which the Committee will the with .
honourable senators , he there has a confusion extraordinary even in the government and his counsel as to know if this bill of bill the applies to the sector of the care of health and how .
the Senator Kirby , the sponsor of the bill of bill , could well would speak of this question when he will a term to the debate in second Reading .
however , he will to better that this that he has fact in his statement prudent who is to according 120 of the é of the Senate of the 4 November where he has said :
honourable senators , the bill of bill C - 6 will the apply to all the sectors of activity , regardless of the size of the businesses .
that includes also the sector of the health .
he will to of protect the information personal in s of health who have was collected , used and releases in the framework of activities trade .
Mr. . Manley and the Department of the Industry have indicated for their on that the bill of bill not the applies not to the doctors , to the patients and to the hospitals .
I wish to say that this point of view is has in question and , in fact , challenged by of many parties interested and their counsel legal .
this is the case by example of the Association Canadian of the care of health , who represents the hospitals of the Association medical Canadian , of the Association medical of the Ontario and of the Department of the Health of the Ontario .
he the is that of agencies who have a point of view diamétralement opposed on the further of the bill of bill and this that be should in to .
yet , they are of agreed on a point , be that the sector of the health not can live with the doubt and the confusion on this bill of bill in this who with the application to the sector .
the confusion result in part of the least of the fact that the bill of bill is supposed the apply to the " activities trade " .
that will - be by that ?
be said in the bill of bill that a " activity commercial " is :
any activity due and that all act isolated who are a uniqueness commercial ...
this definition not is not very useful .
yet , be me said that the laws federal are pleines of regarding who are almost identiques to the - this in this who has with to the activity commercial .
the idea is that be it to the courts the be of decide in each case this who is a activity commercial .
the hon. Fernand Robichaud ( His Hon. the Speaker Acting ) :
honourable senators , the time of speak of the Senator Murray has expired .
leave is - it granted to the hon. Senator of continue ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator Murray :
I thank the honourable senators for their kindness .
frankly , I not me am never - to the rule who limit to 45 minutes the intervention of the Senator who does .
I not me was not record that that I had past as of time on the first part of my intervention .
I not in have more for very long .
the question is of know if the relationship doctor - patient , in the legislation where he there has of the for , or the relationship Hospital - patient , still a time in the legislation where he there has of the for , are of nature commercial .
that they the be or not , he there has when even a problem .
I quote :
that the AMC , he not there has not really way of to a distinction between the activity commercial and the activity of care of health of a way who being of the ensure that the information formula in the matter medical be subject to of the rules different of those which are gives the other information .
that even if a such distinction was possible , the dilemma would the even for the government because would - he desirable that the issues medical not be subject to no rule ?
other said , the agencies who stood now of the information on the health will - they argue that they not are not subject to the provisions of the bill of bill C - 54 because that this information fact part of the matter of health ?
as you the know , the number C - 54 is , who had was " to this bill of bill to the opportunity of the session before .
the or the on :
in under of a such regime , the issues of health would subject to of the criteria least high that those who have over for the information collected in the context commercial .
this is that the expression of a point of view .
the even opinion is stated by the Association Canadian of the health , who represents the hospitals .
it the based on a opinion legal that it has obtenue of the s of lawyers Heenan Blaikie of Montreal , who specific this who following :
... not only the expression " activity commercial " is - it very ambiguously , but it is also totally achievable to our notice in the context of the system of health of today today .
, the over of the past years , the system of health is became a system of services if complex and if transparent that any legislation to to who only the " activity commercial " of the system of health to the for of the bill of bill C - 54 resulting only to of the results illogiques , leadership and ridiculous .
I not to not streamline exagérément the question but , in rule general , he is to my notice fair of say that the agencies of the field of the health which the activities are clear and indubitablement of order commercial the opposed to this bill of bill and are that all the sector of the health 730 to his provisions .
when I about of " these " agencies , I to say between other the pharmaciens , the Laboratories and the businesses who stood , pay and vendent of the data of the field of the health , under a form global or other , and some agencies of research and universities which the activities understand a track commercial .
they feel that the obligation of obtain the consent of the people before of bring of the data in s of health is too onéreuse .
, their notice , this prerequisite restrain seriously their ability to meet a body of information integrated to to all to a better policy and to a better management in the field of the health .
they are even hear that this bill of bill the translate by a backsliding serious of the research medical to the country .
the Ontario Campaign Association states that the bill of bill is entities with the Act on the doctors and the Act on the consent to the care of health .
, their notice , the laws provincial should have is .
all these people believe that the institution of protocoles interprovincial would more effective that a bill federal for ensure the protection of the information on the care of health .
, the hour current , I must say that of other people well to the fact of the laws provincial not are not also optimistic .
in fact , be said sometimes that the bill Ontario is a bill on the access to the information rather that on the protection of the information .
I not to not say by that that the Ontario Campaign Association and the Association Canadian of the care of health not the interested not to the protection of the information on the care of health .
he there has still that use to the level of the values , or to all the least of the priorities .
the presentations by by these groups this of the concerns that I hustings of institutionnelles opposite to the ability to manage , to planned and to improve the system of care of health .
they are that this bill of bill freine the cooperation between the sectors public and private in this who has with to the funding or to the Benefit of the care of health .
I have even read in a of the presentations that that could prevent the Red Bleue or the Bouclier rein of the Canada of as their responsibilities in Ontario in the field of the care of health .
he would , that them , difficult , even even impossible for the government federal of to in implement the recommendations of the Council Advisory on the infostructure of the health who has presented the report in February 99 .
, the while , we have the were expressed very drew by the Association medical Canadian and by the Association dental Canadian .
the Association medical Canadian by that the protection of the confidentiality of the matter medical of the patient must the just on any other consideration .
it is that this bill of bill is low .
it Justice that the Code of the Association Canadian of normalisation on which the based the bill of bill is inadéquat in this who has with to the sector of the health and it believes , as it the has said , that the bill of bill seems have the access to the information for value " .
the Association dental Canadian we has said that we must clarify the bill of bill on several other points important .
it by that the bill of bill C - 6 not uniting not to answer to the requirements fundamental for protect the Canadians against the bad use of information personal regarding their health by of the users high and tertiaires of this information .
the bill of bill C - 6 allows can - be of throughout several priorities of the government in s of trade Electronic , said the ADC , but it believes that the Senate must to someone something for clarify and strengthen the bill of bill in this who with the information personal in s of health .
the Association medical Canadian and the Association dental Canadian have all two public of the amendments that they want that we dimensions and who , of after this that I in have including , incorporeraient essentially in this legislation federal their own codifies of protection of the information personal .
honourable senators , the Committee is they to a task difficult and complex .
before these were who the opposed cleansing , even in the field of the health , he would trying of say that the truth ahead someone on between these two were and that the government is probably him to establish a fair balance with the bill of bill C - 6 .
he would trying of in come to this conclusion or of support this argument , but this would really too easy .
first , the Committee will watering of concerning the doubt and the confusion to about of the applicability of the bill of bill to the sector of the health .
this is a field really too important .
the protection of the information personal in s of health is too important for let this sector in the confusion .
he is clear that the professionals in this field not can the accept because they we the have said .
if the bill of bill not is not clarifié , , - this risk , a time adopted , of be more often breached that respected .
no of between we not wish that he in be and .
even if we can eliminate the doubt who there as to the application of the bill of bill , that répondons - we to the Association medical Canadian and to the Association dental Canadian , who insistent to that the legislation legislative be substantially stipulates ?
should - we try of apply the provisions to all the sector of the health , as commercial that not commercial ?
if we the do , have - we truly the power constitutional of act of the so ?
finally , he must absolutely hear Health Canada relatively to this question .
for as that I far , no representative of Health Canada not is come testify during of the hearings of the Committee of the House of the Commons .
the Committee and the Senate must benefit of the views of the Department of the Health relatively to all the aspects of the bill of bill who touch the sector of the health .
personally , I not wish not to this that the Minister come testify , but the Committee should certainly invite of the senior officials of the Department of the Health to come to this legislation legislative , the of that the - this an the health .
honourable senators , we have many of work to to .
at - we to the task , but not rush not the things .
not we imposons not of will artificiels when he the is of a question also important .
this time - this , we not have not to we preoccupied of a prorogation .
we can take the time necessary .
honourable senators , I you thank of your indulgence .
the hon. Sheila Finestone :
honourable senators , I have listened with great interest the criticism urgently of our hon. colleague .
he we remind and heritage the importance of the question of the right to the life privacy , essentially , the right that be we it tranquilles .
I believe that this is the Justice Brandeis who has said that we had the right that be we it tranquilles , and I am well of agreed with him .
the question is of know if this bill of bill does to the two criteria following .
the Prime is a criterion economic and the second with the justice social .
a great number of the senators who the find today today in opposite of I understand the dilemma who is to balance justice economic and justice social of a manner who be equitable for them and for the people that we have the privilege of represent in this House , and that for all the people to which we do a very sense of responsibility .
honourable senators , this is with a wear any particular that I about today today of the bill of bill C - 6 .
I me recall that , of the time where I at to the other place , he the was the bill of bill C - 54 , Act on the protection of the information personal and the documents electronic .
my wear is of as more great that the a of the responsibilities and of the duties which I am the more proud has was of serve in as that chairman of the Committee Standing of the rights of the human and of the condition of the people disabilities of the other place .
we have given of the hearings on a great variety of questions regarding the life privacy and , in 1997 , we have prepared a report entitled : " Position life privacy :
where the at the border ? "
we have heard of the stories enough troublantes to the about of the treatment " to the people disabilities and of the rights of the human who not were not well protected .
we have heard speak of the challenges that represents the new Technology to the level of the protection of the rights of the citizens of in prevent some of nose in their life privacy and of use the information that they découvrent to of the for infamous .
our research me have fact discover the many facets complex that there this question .
he rest still many of work to to for strengthen our rights basic .
today today , I traiterai in particular of the part 1 of the bill of bill and of the protection of the information personal in the sector private .
that not falling in nothing my reserves as to the second part of the bill of bill who relates on the documents electronic .
the provisions of the part 2 of the bill of bill are essential for facilitate the trade Electronic who is became if important for the economy Canadian current and which the importance not will that increase to the over of the years .
for the time , I like particularly me focus on the definition of the protection of the life privacy and of the use of the information personal .
the provisions of the bill Bill C - 6 to to ensure the protection of the life privacy are a great not in the good leadership , particularly to the be of those who constataient the pressing need of better protect this right .
in was the principles of the protection of the data recognized internationalement to the businesses private of resort federal , the bill of bill parliament to a regime comprehensive of protection of the life privacy .
of the laws on the protection of the information personal and on the trade Electronic are already in are of be completed in Europe , in the Union European , to the OECD , in Nova - Zealand and in Australia .
the Americans are concerned because that they not nor not of mechanisms precise of protection of the information commercial .
they élargissent now the scope of this protection for power strengthen their activity commercial .
we have also need of to of the trade , honourable senators .
I am pleased that we we dirigions in this seaway through to this bill of bill .
I remind to the honourable senators that the protection of the information personal not is not a something to which be can think after the in a society democratic .
the Commissioner to the protection of the life privacy , Bruce Phillips , the ' of these questions , of even that of those who matters of the Act on the access to the information .
these two laws can sometimes enter in conflict , but all two have for obligation of protect all the citizens .
the Act on the protection of the information personal governs the raising , the use and the communication of information personal by of the institutions government .
it is very its and has was effective until here .
, my notice , the Commissioner Phillips the is very well did of this service .
the Commissioner to the protection of the life privacy of the Canada has supported that the force who anime the companies décentes is the respect of the principle of equity .
we must we deal the each the other with a level reasonable of respect .
we not must not we expressed in cachette with of the information that we can use against of other people .
the bill of bill C - 6 is to ensure the respect of this principle of equity and of décence .
, my notice , the bill of bill has reached the balance delicate who the is between the need for the businesses Canadian of have access to of the information personal for exercise their activities and the need for all the citizens of control the raising , the use and the communication of the information who the with .
he is came to good number of between we of have a astonishes to the letters who déborde of new mail of all such .
we we asking then to what magazine we have took a abonnement or still what Purchase we have fact to the way of a as of credit , of so that we understand this that we receiving to our relates , in the mail and by the through of our telephone , and we not are not surprise .
this who we amazed , this is that our names be sold .
each of we is a subject of trade , a marchandise .
in what legislation want - we control this marchandise for protect of the information personal ?
the effort for establish a balance is obvious in the section supply the subject of the bill of bill .
I as that the legislation has need of be amendée and clarifiée .
I know if we will to a compromise and we hear , but I would certainly more to the comfortable if this question was the subject of a review more thorough .
the provisions on the protection of the life privacy recognize that we are in a era where the Technology removing of more in more the flow and the Exchange of information .
this is a wording that he not would not forget .
the bill of bill C - 6 not is not a panacea for all the threats to the life privacy which are opposite all the companies democratic modern , but he the touch on a part important who is the possible that of the information personal be delivered to of the organizations to the Canada .
the bill of bill would to the consumers of the rights in this who with the information personal who the with , all in complying the need legitimate of the businesses of was and of use these information .
the consumers must have confidence - this is very important with Internet - and we must promote this confidence .
for that our businesses fill and grandissent , they must establish a link of confidence with those who are their services .
by therefore , the confidence that has the so that his information personal will protected in the transactions electronic is absolutely basic .
in even time , the efforts for protect the information to on of the individuals not must not standard alarm of the costs for the businesses .
the new legislation legislative require that the businesses the conforment to the together of practices field of treatment of the information ' to the point by the representatives of the industry .
the groups of Defence of the consumers , the unions , the government and various sectors of the field of the health have was consulted for this legislation legislative of the Association Canadian of normalisation .
this is that , I believe , a broader representation of the concerns and of the needs to take in consideration .
the practices field of treatment of the information which he is question the our the Code type of the Association Canadian of normalisation .
this Code is in effect since 1996 and is joined in as to the bill of bill .
he has was ' to the point by the society civil , the businesses , the industry , the professionals and the NGOs .
a of the amendments would relevant in the here because he the is of a description very broader who covers a broad range of businesses trade to the Canada .
this Code establishes the obligations of the businesses who stood , are and ministerial of the information personal .
the businesses must would to the people to what for the data are allow , obtain their consent before of use or of bring the information , ensure to this that the information be well those who are necessary for the for which they must serve - not not not any what for , but well the for which they have was collected - and protect the information by of the measures of security legitimate .
the standard national establishes also the right of the issues of the data of see and of correct their issues and of the concern in case of problems .
these people can the address to someone a in the business who seems use to bad escient or difficulty bring the information and such that a responsible the ' of the problem and take the measures appropriate .
he there will without doubt a debate on the improvements to to to the bill of bill for the to more effective .
I remind to the honourable senators that a bill of bill is rarely perfect in his form original ; in fact , little of things are parfaites in this world well imparfait .
the evolution of this legislation legislative we montrera in what sense we orienter for to of the amendments who improve the effectiveness on the plan of the protection of the information personal all in complying the interests legitimate of the businesses Canadian in any the legislation of the possible .
a Senator has asked a question to the about of the together of the services of health .
I know the AMC , and I believe understand that it applies the oath of Hippocrate , a Code of conduct and a Code of Ethics .
all the doctors , dentists and pharmaciens must the there with .
that not to not necessarily say that we must have all a patchwork hétéroclite of measures for prevent any it to the right to the protection of the identity and of the information personal to the Canada .
honourable senators , I have was very pleased of see that be had made of the changes to the bill of bill presented to the departure to the other place .
he there has had 16 amendments , and a sure number of between them have answered to number of my questions and of my concern .
and , the definition of the information personal has was amendée .
the amendment is very important , because the expression studs now all this who the quoted to a individual identifiable .
that the applies to of the things as the caméras of monitoring , the caméras placées in the washrooms , the information medical and dentaires , the information of order patent , the pharmacies who livrent the pharmacare , and the research .
however , for we prémunir against any mistake - that is crucial , because our information personal a time perdus , not can be typical - , he is vital that the definition the étende to the members of the professions Liberal and to the NGOs .
I like that we apportions a amendment to this clause where the be is the regarding .
if I not me read , this clause the is in the part 1 , to the section 2 , that just of read the Senator .
this section its this that he must hear by activity commercial .
that is - this that a activity commercial ?
the he the is of a activity commercial , the activity in because should be couverte and it should understand of the professionals and of the agencies without purpose profit .
I believe that we réglerions and some of the problems who have was raised by various agencies .
honourable senators , then - I complete , with your leave ?
the Hon. the Speaker :
the leave is - it granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator Finestone :
he the is of information related to of the people human identifiables and , frankly , I not like not think to them in as that groups or cercles different .
essentially , if the information that you have me with and that you the " obtenue because that I you the have demandée for my police of insurance , of the services of health , of the services medical or dentaires , this information me is and it me with .
as my grandchildren - children the say , it is to I .
it is to I and human not can the the realizes if we pass this bill of bill properly .
the right of not not be identifiables by those which we not wish not be what - short , the right of not not be importunés - must be guaranteed in the section of the bill of bill where are contained the regarding .
I like well that we parvenions to the to .
I hope that the Minister acceptance of amend this definition and that he ups to this that it specific that he we any little of where has was rid this information or how it is conclude in the world commercial if the interested who the has obtenue not had not the right of the to - he not had not my leave , he not has not from my whatsoever and I not to not that he has this information in his possession .
he must also to the question raised to the ( 7 ( 3 ) f ) of the bill of bill relatively to the communication of data to of the for of research .
many of people the late of the use of data to of the for of research .
he there has way of use of the data without identify the people .
he not there has no reason for that be not can not the to .
be can make of the research without would the identity of the people .
the question fall by this clause is the end word of the history .
short , honourable senators , this bill of bill is excellent even the he must be developed and thorough to some places .
I believe that the bill of bill C - 6 , who fact part of the strategy necessary to this end , will the favour of the House and become bill .
I believe that we able to case without problem with the Union European .
I believe that we respecterons the criteria of the OECD .
more important still , I believe that we protégerons the information personal of all the world .
( on the motion of the Senator Oliver , the debate is adjourned . )
- honourable senators , I am particularly pleased of speak in favour of the bill of bill S - 10 , who is to amend the Act on the Defence national , the Act on the identification by the fingerprints génétiques and that the Code criminal .
this bill of bill there in a broad legislation through to the Senate and more specifically to the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional .
this bill of bill represents the What of a commitment that the Solicitor General has took the fall last when the Committee examinait the new Act on the identification by the fingerprints génétiques .
as you you in recall can - be , this bill for the institution of a bank national of data génétiques who will of as the profile of identification was of individuals who have made of the crimes serious and violent .
for the review , the Committee has noticed that the bill of bill not provided no clause Motion the levy of marine Denmark on of the Offenders anywhere guilty of offences serious and violent and traduits in the framework of the system of justice military , levy which the results are then paid in the bank of data génétiques .
the Committee has expressed his concerns as to the nature extremely sensitive of the data génétiques , to the evolution quick of the Technology regarding the fingerprints génétiques and to the risks of to it to the life privacy of the Canadians of manner imprévue .
these concerns had took the Committee to recommend , in the sixteenth report , of to some improvements to the measures legislation with the bank of data génétiques .
the Solicitor General the was committed to give on to these recommendations in carcinogens a bill of bill distinct before the implementation in place of the bank national of data génétiques .
given of that the bill of bill S - 10 does to of the questions raised to the Senate , the Solicitor General has asked clear that he be presented to the Senate before the other place .
I am sure that we apprécions all this initiative deM .
I so now to the content of the bill of bill .
he the is of a bill of bill are technical , truffé of references to of other laws , but , essentially , his major elements are very simple .
all of first , the bill of bill amend the Act on the Defence national and the Act on the identification by the fingerprints génétiques of manner to include in the bank national of data génétiques the profiles of the individuals recognized guilty of offence to the Code of discipline military or of offences serious and violent .
the Code the applies to the staff military , to the Reserves and to some Political who Expenditure the military to the abroad .
the system of profiles of identification was established by the bill of bill S - 10 for the they following very closely the model of the system that the Parliament has created for the Political .
, the on of a condemnation for the offence plants , the judges military will therefore the power of order the levy of échantillons of marine Denmark on of the people justiciables of the Code of discipline military .
the provisions of this bill to with to the Building of mandates are adjusted to the through of the context military .
and , the police military can ask of the mandates regarding the are génétiques when it enquêtera on of the offences of order military who are comparable to the offences high définies in the Code criminal .
the changes are of the improvements notables to the bill in effect .
in the of present of the things , the police military can the address to a Justice of a court provincial for obtain a mandate relatif to of the are génétiques in the framework of the inquiry on a offence plants commise to the Canada , but it not can not obtain this mandate if the offence has was commise to the abroad .
the list of the offences désignées found in the Code criminal not includes not some offences serious to the words of the Act on the Defence national or some offences to uniqueness strictly military , by example , the esteemed with violence .
the bill of bill will to the judges military the power of render of the mandates their to the are génétiques in case of offences to the Act on the Defence national of so that the police military can make of the investigation police more effective as to the Canada that to the abroad .
a second series of changes made in this bill of bill does directly to the recommendations of the Committee Senate .
this bill of bill give to the Senate the even power that the House of the Commons for this who is of to the Act on the identification by the fingerprints génétiques five years after his proclamation .
these changes is specifically to give to the Parliament the tools necessary for monitor the effectiveness of the bank of data on a some period , this who was a concern of the Senate .
the third Main part who is amended is the statement of the principles of the Act on the identification by the fingerprints génétiques , who is expanded .
he will indicated that the marine Denmark credible and the profiles génétiques through to from of these marine not can be used that to the for of application of the bill .
this amendment is to answer to the concerns of the Committee Senate to the about of the bad use possible of the profiles génétiques , by example for determine the makes Medical , physical or mentales of a human .
in fact , that base some of the questions raised during the debate on the information personal .
this bank of data has for subject of identify the people , as be can already the to to the way of the fingerprints With .
he not the is not and he not the Glenney never of compiler of the information of order staff .
of the changes made to the Code criminal will of protect also against all bad use the data génétiques of the people justiciables of the Code of discipline military .
the other changes of this bill will for effect of clarify and of strengthen the regime of levy of marine Denmark .
pursuant to the new principle which I just of you speak , the Code criminal will amended of so that the system of justice military will also subject to the shut of use to of the for not catch the marine Denmark credible and the results of their analysis was .
finally , this bill of bill there a sure number of changes of order practice to the Code criminal to of ensure the implementation in implement of the Act on the identification by the fingerprints génétiques .
the Code criminal is therefore clarifié to this regard since he there is said that the something not has not to be orderly if the lawyer of the Crown informed the court that the profile was of the human fall the is already in the bank national of data génétiques .
be make and the system more effective and be RESPs the Estimates outlive occasionnées by the raising and the analysis in double of the échantillons of marine Denmark s on the offenders chronic .
in the case where of the offenders are forwarded in a other province before that a order of levy of a échantillon not has was exécuté , the judges of courts provincial will approve the order or the Authorized who has was " in the province of where from the offenders in question .
two provisions of the Code criminal , who not were not still in effect , will abrogées to because of the consequences negative that they have for the Administration of the justice .
he the is of the obligation , for a officer of the peace , of inform a human fall by a order or a mandate relatif to the are génétiques that it can express his remarkable as to the substance corporelle to levies - blood , salive or sudden - and of the obligation of the officer of the peace of to that of the remarkable stated .
these provisions an a problem because that nothing in the right pénal not " the police to let a human who fact the subject of a inquiry choose the way of raising of the elements of evidence .
who more is , as the have has the representatives of the provinces and of the territories , the judges prescrivent already in the mandates the procedure of inquiry to follow , and if be it the human choose , that conservative to to an his decision against the of a Justice .
a other clause of the Code criminal will abrogée .
it with the into did in the bank of data génétiques of the results of the inquire of marine Denmark found volunteers or through in under of a mandate Motion the too of are génétiques during the inquiry .
the Laboratories judicial Canadian have fact know that they not were not in favour of enter the results of the inquire of marine Denmark and the profiles génétiques who in clauses in the bank of data in these case - that , because the marine Denmark and the profiles generic are usually remove for serve of Room to conviction to the case where he there would a new proceedings .
in addition , the échantillons s in under of a mandate Motion of such inquire , contrary to those who will s for the bank of data after the condemnation , are assortis of codifies of identification personal .
he will therefore more difficult for the RCMP of protect the rights to the life privacy of the individuals , and that the 6 the Act on the identification by the fingerprints génétiques .
for avoid all problem , be consider now necessary of levies of new échantillons of marine Denmark each time that he there has a order for their inclusion in the bank of data , this is - to - say after the condemnation .
in conclusion , the bill of bill S - 10 move some amendments to the Act on the Defence national , to the Act on the identification of the fingerprints génétiques and to the Code criminal in view of to the implementation in place effective of a bank of data of data génétiques complete .
not only he give on to the recommendations of the Committee Senate , but in more he affine the bill on the bank of data to of the for of application practice .
took together , these changes are we have in this House took a on important undoubtedly to protect the right of the Canadians to the life privacy all in dotant the police , for his investigation , of a tool of high technicité who will of improve the security public .
( on the motion of the Senator Kinsella , to the behalf of the Senator Nolin , the debate is adjourné . )
bill of bill of 99 for the implementation in Bill of conventions tax
second Reading - Adjourned of the debate
- honourable senators , I am pleased of initiate the debate to the step of the second Reading of the bill of bill S - 3 .
this text legislative has for subject of to in implement of the conventions tax treaties between the Canada and seven country - the Kirghizistan , the Lebanon , the Algeria , the Bulgaria , the Portugal , the Ouzbékistan and the Syria - with which the Canada not has not of conventions tax in effect now .
the bill of bill relates also creation of a new convention replacement the convention current with the Luxembourg and highlights in implement a protocol who amend of the parties of the convention reached with the Japan .
before of alters the bill of bill , I like take a time for establish the context in which he the recorded .
, the time where the regime of the tax on the income of the Canada has was examined and it in 1971 , he in has including skin a Families of our system of conventions tax with of other country .
, the hour current , of the conventions tax between the Canada and 65 country are in effect .
honourable senators , he you intéressera can - be of know that since 1976 , 24 bills of bill of conventions tax have was tabled to the Parliament . cases the two past years only , of the conventions or of the protocoles have was through with 14 country .
the conventions tax are particularly important for the Canada because that they are directly related to the trade international of products and of services and that they have therefore a impact direct on their performance economic domestic .
this impact is great .
the exports Canadian are now more of 40 per of our product within gross annual .
in addition , the health economic of the Canada each year based also on the Investment abroad direct and that on the influx of information , of capital , of Technology , of royalties , of dividends and of interests .
he is therefore obvious that the conventions tax for in the bill of bill S - 3 profiteront to the businesses and to the special Canadian who exercise of the activities and who hold of the investment in these country .
the taxpayers Canadian will including happy of learn that a rate of tax set by convention not can be increased without a long notice .
of more , of the simple fact of their existence , the conventions tax créeront a climate of certainty and of stability for the investors and the négociants .
this climate not can that improve the relations economic that are the Canada with each of these country .
in addition , in eliminating the need of pay of the tax on some profits of business and in by a mechanism of regulation of the problems Deployment by the taxpayers , he will possible of reduce the difficult and the incommodité of the regime tax as such .
the fact of streamline the regime of the conventions tax stimulate the activity international , this who will a effect favourable on the economy Canadian .
finally , the Elimination or the atténuation of the double tax who could other time in the framework of the operations international will the more great advantage .
if the be at in that the convention who is the in effect with the Luxembourg , the new conventions for in the bill of bill S - 3 is two great objectives : avoid the double tax and prevent the Seniors tax .
these problems are already took in consideration in the convention in effect with the Japan .
I me would of attention that in the case of the conventions tax pensioners , these conventions are our s of the model of double tax prepared by the Organization of cooperation and of development economic .
the possible of double tax declared when a taxpayer ahead in a country and that he earner a income in a other country .
without convention tax , the two country can clamour of the tax on this income .
the conventions of double tax are in so that the even income not can be imposed two time .
the conventions tax treaties by the Canada the attack to this problem of two ways .
first , in by the rights of tax between the country of residence of the taxpayer and the country of origin of the income .
second , if the income is however tax in the two country , in require of the country of residence that he consider the income as the Board of tax or in easier a credit to the as of the tax paid to the country of origin .
of even , the conventions of double tax exceptions the Exchange of information between the authorities tax in view of prevent the Seniors or the evasion tax .
this is the second objective of these conventions .
the sharing of the information assistance the authorities tax to cerner the case of Seniors and of evasion tax and to there be .
in this who has with to the conventions for in the bill of bill S - 3 , each country treated the relief who is to the as of the tax paid in the other country part to the convention tax .
the Canada and the other country apply usually of the taxes of out to various policy of income of not - residents .
the country of where is was the income can clerical of the taxes but to a rate who the limit usually to 5 , 10 or 15 per on the dividends and the profits of the for and to 10 per in the case of the interests and of the royalties .
in some case , the royalties payées to the as of the rights of author , of the software , of the patents and of the know - to are exonérées to the source .
the convention reached with the Kirghizistan , by example , limit the rate of the out of tax to 15 per in the case of the dividends , of the interests and of the profits of for and à10p. per in the case of the royalties .
he there some exonérations for this who is of the interests and that of the royalties on the rights of author , the software , the patents and the know - to .
the convention reached with the Lebanon for a out of tax of 5 per on the dividends paid to a society who Canada to the least 10 per of the Senators of the society who designed the dividends and of 15 per in all the other case .
the profits of for and the royalties on the rights of author , the software , the patents and the know - to will imposed to a rate of 5 per and the interests to a rate of 10 per .
for the Algeria , a tax of 15 per will - in the case of all the dividends , interests and royalties , and some exonérations are for for the interests and the royalties on the software and the patents .
the convention reached with the Bulgaria for the application of a out of tax of 10 per on the dividends doctoral to a society holding to the least 10 per of the Senators of the society who designed the dividends , and of 15 per in all the other case .
for this who of the convention reached with the Portugal , a society must have to the least 25 per of the Senators of the society who designed the dividends for have right to a out of tax de10p. per on the dividends .
a out of 15 per the apply in all the other case .
a out of 10 per the apply also to the interests and royalties , to few reservations close for the interests .
in this who has with to the Ouzbékistan , the rate of out of tax who the apply to the dividends doctoral to a society who Canada to the least 10 per of the Senators of society who designed the dividends will of 5 per and of 15 per in all the other case .
a rate of 10 per the apply to the interests and to the royalties , and a tax of 5 per will prélevé on the rights of author , the patents , the software and the know - to .
the new convention reached with the Syria establishes à10p. per the out of tax who the applies to the dividends doctoral to a society holding to the least 10 per of the Senators of the society who designed the dividends , and to 15 per , the who the applies in all the other case .
the convention for also a out of 10 per on the interests and the royalties , some exonérations the was to the interests on the by government and guaranteed by the government .
the bill of bill S - 3 is the current convention of 1989 reached with the Luxembourg and for the application of a out of tax of 5 per on the dividends for a society who Canada to the least 10 per of the Senators of the society who designed the dividends , and of 15 per in all the other case .
a rate of 10 per the apply to the interests and to the royalties , of new to few reservations close for the interests and the royalties on the software , the patents and the know - to .
the bill of bill S - 3 amend also the current convention of 1986 reached with the Japan .
the protocol with the Japan fact from of 10 to 5 per the tax - on the dividends between companies and he éclaircit a sure number of other provisions .
in addition , the protocol relates specifically on the question of the taxes Japanese of business in exonérant of these taxes the companies Canadian who have of the ships or of the aircraft in the field of the transportation intercontinental , a legislation of courtesy already granted by the provinces Canadian to the companies Japanese who exercise of the activities similar .
honourable senators , the conventions that contains the bill of bill S - 3 them also on of other questions of conventions tax .
by example , the country of origin can impose the gains in capital made to the Divestiture of a well real , of active commercial and of actions in the companies real or of the participation in of the real or of the companies of people real .
the discrimination based on the nationalité of a taxpayer is were .
however , the measures incitatives as the deduction granted to the small businesses and the credit of tax for dividends which benefit the Canadians not are not affected .
before of conclude , I like me with on the question of the migrations of the taxpayers .
four of the conventions for in this bill of bill held that of a some way of the rules on the migration of the taxpayers who have was proposed by the Minister of the Finance and who will part of the bill of bill budget of 99 .
these proposals is to amend the Act of the tax on the income of way to this that the Canada divested the right of impose the gains made by the immigrants for their time here .
, the time of to public the bill of bill in December last , the Minister has announced that the Canada renégocierait his conventions tax for to that of the new rules to of avoid the double tax .
and , in pending that these rules have force of bill , the Canada has been his conventions tax of manner to avoid the double tax to the time where the gains made by of the immigrants , before their departure , are mobile .
in this who with the bill of bill S - 3 , the conventions with the Luxembourg , the Portugal , the Lebanon and the Syria held that of the migration of the taxpayers .
however , the conventions with the Ouzbékistan , the Bulgaria , the Algeria and the Khirghizistan not in held not that the of that they have was négociées before the announcement of the proposals .
the Japan has asked that this question of the migration of the taxpayers be took in the framework of future negotiations on the convention .
for conclude , I like out that the conventions tax that contains this bill of bill are conçues for relieve the double tax international of the income transferred of a country to a other .
these conventions tax will of to in so that the political tax Canadian be colleague uniformément to the operations treaties with the Khirghizistan , the Lebanon , the Algeria , the Bulgaria , the Portugal , the Ouzbékistan , the Syria , the Japan and the Luxembourg . Elles créeront also a climate of stability for the investors and the négociants Canadian in these country .
honourable senators , the bill of bill S - 3 is a text legislative of nature day who is a tax equitable and the - of good relations international and trade .
the equity of the regime tax - who , as we the know all , is a priority of the state - respectful that no Canadian not the is took to the piège of the double tax .
however , these conventions tax is specifically to eliminate the double tax .
before of conclude , I like out the work magnificent of the team of experts who have with this process long and s of our government .
these officials have served the interests of the Canada under the habile leadership of their Minister respectif to the Finance and to the Justice .
they deserve all our also .
as this text of bill not raises no controversy , I you urge urge to the support .
( on the motion of the Senator Lynch - Lynch , the debate is adjourned . )
the speech of the Throne
motion of Adopted of the Adresse in response - Continued of the debate
the order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Jeffrey , seconded by the hon. Senator Furey , Honourable to the Adopted of a Adresse to His Excellency the Gouverneure general in response to the speech that her has by during of the openness of the second session of the 30 - sixth session Parliament . -
( 3e day of the resuming of the debate . )
the hon. William Kelly :
honourable senators , I am delighted of see that as of senators of this side - this be swim for me hear this after - afternoon .
I have therefore well the intention of in benefit to the appreciates .
I me for of the commitment took in the speech of the Throne " of ensure to this that the Forces Canadian be in legislation of support the role of the Canada for help to the security in the world " .
how - we however of under - Total the legislation in which we are held of honour this commitment .
since 1988 , the Estimates incurred to the as of the Defence national have decreased in $ terms , year after year , to the point that the power of Purchase of the budget of the Defence is today today to little close equivalent to , of the beginning of the years 70 .
the means which we begin for buy the equipment necessary and in ensure the maintenance have was particularly affaiblis by on of Funding budget .
the work of the forces Armed actives , who was of 87 . people in 1989 - 1990 , should , that the forecasts , fall of 60 . of here to the end of the year financial in over .
we not are already more in legislation of may of the units combattantes for the Lord of land , be the minimum acceptable for make a action military sustainable .
that the data published by the NATO , the Canada the recorded to the last rank of the country members for this who is of the being of the Force due and of the Forces first and high of contingency .
he there in has who dismiss that the end of the War Cold has will the need of maintain a ability military himself and permanent and has created a perspective of " accruing of peace " .
as I the have often said in this House , I believe that they the trompent totally .
the threats to the security and their sources have can - be changed , but the world of today today is affiliated more instable , dangerous and unforeseeable that never .
the possible of conflict local and regional déclenchés by of the mouvements separatists policy is always its in all the across of the chorus .
the threat of terrorism by of the States renégats and of the groups rebel there always .
honourable senators , I sphere to believe that the impact international of the failure of some States constitueront the key threat to the security of the Canada and of the Canadians in a future result .
that this be in Africa , in the former - Union Soviet , in Asia of the South - East , in America core or in America of the South , he so that of the States the désorganisent , as be the has seen already , for various reasons economic , Environmental or political .
the désintégration of a state creates a vacuum of power that the empressent often of fill of the groups criminals or terrorist who , to their turn , stop the security of the other States .
be is of the examples of that in the former - Union Soviet .
the effritement of the power Civil has fact unborn any a series of activities sordides .
honourable senators , the months last by example , the authorities russes have - six people to Vladivostok who the apprêtaient to out of the country six kilogrammes of grade 4,238 for the sell to the outside .
this grade erroneous of a plant where the be démantelait some parties of the conserving nuclear Soviet and of the terrorist or of the groups criminals have could the use for manufacture of the bombs nuclear small certainly , but very destructrices .
this is to because of threats of this such that we must remain deliver and maintain in at a good service of Intelligence of security and a they efficient .
I for the government of the commitment to the military , but I hope see more of details in the next budget federal .
the speech of the Throne specific the plans of the government for the arrived of the new millennium .
be said often that this Prime Minister and the government are of vision .
he there has many of talk words in the speech of the Throne on the preparedness to the new millennium .
I acknowledge that to several occasions be about of facilitate , by example , the trade Electronic and the access to Internet , but that not is not a vision global for ensure the future of the Canada .
the globalization of the economies means that all the economies among of more in more interdépendantes .
in fact , soon , he not there will more this that be Order a " economy domestic " .
he not there will more that a only economy and a only market .
the economies , the markets and the competition not will not limited by the boundaries national or regional .
he not there will more of boundaries .
between - time , all the investors and people of Affairs international critically continually to a review detailed who not would never was possible before , of all the economies domestic , there including the of the Canada .
the progress in the technologies of the telecommunications , particularly the progress in the trade Electronic , are that the investment can be through and of the decisions can be taken in millisecondes .
the capital can enter in a country or in out in a moment .
the year last , we have was witnesses can - be of the Prime example of the impact of these forces and of the trade Electronic on the economy of the Nations of the Asia of the South - East and of the Pacific .
these important fuites of capital constituency a vote of not - confidence by the investors international and the community of the Affairs .
the impact the are feel of our days in of the country individual , there including to the Canada , and in the world around .
, the on of the crisis Asian , the over of the dollar Canadian has falling by report to the dollar American then that the cambistes have bought the more of $ American possible for the protect against the earners Asian .
our exports to the Far - East have suffered then that the crisis has system a further of the price of the products of basic .
the capital and the businesses not are more from by the geography , the time or the has national .
a economy or a government who not the there not as the Banking , the financial , the courtiers in values securities and the agencies of cotation in the capitales financial the would can to the subject , quickly and confronted , he is true , of sanctions very unclear .
even if we not go can - be not that , he not in remains not least that the Canada not has not of other option that of enfiler this that be Order a " corset economic " who is to all that the Canada is a good place where invest and to of the Affairs to the over of the new millennium .
the art of allowed will of us this corset economic to of improve the situation of the Canada and of the Canadians to better answer of their requirements and of protect the things who are special for the Canadians and who are part of our way of life , as by example , our system national of care of health .
what that he in be , to the time where we will to the new millennium , the Canada has many to to .
the debt global of the levels federal , provincial and City is too way and continues of at .
our levels of tax personal are a burden excessive .
in despite of improvements important who have was made to the over of the two past decades , our economy includes always many of regulations and of paperasserie .
we are always widely city of the resources natural .
about 40 per of the GDP of the Canada clauses of the trade of our resources natural .
he there has always of too many obstacles to the trade , to the Investment and to the mobility of the with - of implement to the country .
in despite of the progress challenges made to the over of the past years , our infrastructure of basic in the sectors of the 2004 of water , of the égouts and of the transportation , particularly in the major cities , require of the delicacies and of the improvements important .
we must to more in view of improve our productivity .
we must in to more in the sectors of the education , of the research and of the development to of become the such of society innovatrice and adaptable who will not only survive but who will also vibrant to the over of the next millennium .
he there always a gap considerable between this that the Canada is and this that he could become .
, this regard , I for the government who has took the commitment in the speech of the Throne of to of new a legislation legislative to to protect the information personal and commercial in a Alexander undertakings and to recognize the signatures electronic .
of similar initiatives are essential if the Canada and the Canadians want be in legislation of benefit fully of the opportunities area by the Internet and the trade Electronic .
honourable senators , the évocation of the Laundering of money me remind that the government the is committed in the speech of the Throne to to the focus on the threats new which must to opposite the Canadians , as the Laundering of the money .
that the Department of the Finance , of 5 to 17 billion of $ , or as I the have read in the newspaper this morning of 17 to 40 billion of $ stand each year diagrams to the Canada or by the through of the Canada .
the Group of action financial on the Laundering of capital , who the composede 26 country , including the Canada , the Board European and the Council of cooperation of the Gulf Arab , has constantly criticized the much of the Canada .
the promise made in the speech of the Throne is encouraging .
however , we have of the economical on the plates .
honourable senators , the fact that the speech of the Throne about insuffisamment of the problem of the Immigration illégale to the and by the Canada me has frankly many gêné .
we know that to of be prosperous during the next millennium , the Canada must continue of draw of the immigrants of the world around .
he is however potent that our country not atteigne not his objectives as to the number of immigrants received .
the Canada has drew 13 per of immigrants of least in 1998 that to the over of the year before .
we seem know of the difficulties only for draw of the workers and of the professionals competent .
however , that not means not that we find close the be on the problem growing of the Immigration illégale to the Canada , in from of various regions of the world .
he the is of a problem pressing , which the causes deep resident in our process of recognition of the status of refugee .
honourable senators , the is policy makes difficult the held of a debate open and rationnel on our political and our procedures related to the status of refugee .
any human who lancerait a such debate or who visiting in question the quo quo short the risk of be qualifiée of racist or of anti - 1915 .
he not there to nothing of attention that the most of the immigrants illégaux not fuient not the persecution for their beliefs religious , political or other , but that this are of the refugees be improve their situation economic .
of even , he not there to nothing of to out that these immigrants illégaux have legalistic the bill Canadian and that this is a very bad manner of begin a new life to the Canada .
I am enough proud that the Committee Special recent on the security that I have chaired has identified and demonstrated the problem growing of the Immigration illégale hosted to the Canada before that he not be very médiatisé and not atteigne the summum of his médiatisation the was last .
the Immigration illégale to the Canada threat the integrity of any our policy of Immigration .
those who are to come to the Canada in the soumettant to all the procedures see the illégaux the constructive .
be knows also that a great part of the Immigration illégale is the fact of organizations criminal .
not only these organizations are particularly méchantes , but they are also pay very sir to the immigrants , to the plans financial and staff , the privilege of come in America of the North .
a great number of these immigrants are reduced to the servitude for pay their debts to the gangs criminals , to the " snakeheads " , who the have fact from diagrams to the Canada .
I have was happy of learn that a Justice of London had recently court four passeurs to of the disappointment of - variant between 7 and 14 years .
that the documents tabled to the court , the passeurs had extorqué about a million of $ to their clients .
the Justice has qualified their activities of méchantes , occupation and unfeeling .
we not do of gift to human in clumsily the be on the Immigration illégale .
those who benefit the more of our laxisme and of our approach naïve of the determination of the status of refugee are the elements criminals who the livrent to this activity .
we must recognize that the Immigration illégale not is not a problem strictly national .
if the Canada to work closely with the government American for modernize our border common for the 21 century , as be the slogan in the speech of the Throne , this modernization must to in so that our other boundaries among least poreuses for the organizations of passeurs .
, my notice , the difficulty not ahead not in our laws , but in their application .
the problems of application have was at to and occasions .
the study In by the group of work ' on at by the former Minister of the Citizenship and of the Immigration has an that he not there had not of system effective in place for whether the respect of the conditions cut by the members of Immigration to the claimants of the status of refugee .
in addition , the Department of the Citizenship and of the Immigration not monitors not the corridors and attack of the most of the claimants of the status of refugee , there including the thousands of people who expect a audition in s of Immigration or who are under the the of a expulsion .
be at the fingerprints With of the claimants of the status of refugee to the points of into to of power determine the they have a stopped judicial or the they are a threat to the security of the state .
however , the members of Immigration have said to the Committee Senate Special that the training and the equipment dactyloscopiques which they nor are such that the fingerprints that they taking are to all for practices outlive and of as simply stored .
by therefore , we have need not not of new laws or measures , but of a will policy and of the resources necessary for to in implement and apply the laws and the measures existing .
the detention of immigrants illégaux is clearly a question sensitive .
contrary to the States - United and to of other country , we not emprisonnons not the immigrants illégaux to least of have of the reasons of believe that they are of the criminals or that they are a threat for the security of the state .
the Minister of the Citizenship and of the Immigration the against to the detention of the immigrants illégaux because that they not have nothing fact of difficulty .
it believe therefore that the emprisonner would of the least contrary to the Charter of the rights and freedoms .
, my sense - and I know that this not is not a opinion popular - the immigrants illégaux have fact someone something of difficulty .
they have was and volunteers breached the legislation Canadian of the Immigration and that should be a reason enough of the emprisonner until to their hearing Current to the recognition of the status of refugee .
however , the process must be heavy .
the decisions must come in time timely .
be not can not have of the people for of the months because that be lack of staff for chamber the work rapid .
finally , honourable senators , I for the government of the be committed to strengthen the ability of the RCMP and of other agencies of refute the threats to the security public to the Canada and of work with the forces of the order of other country .
this is commendable , but , I the as , he must decide until where be can go .
still that , I am anxious of see the details in the next budget .
honourable senators , to the approach of the new millennium , he is of reflect to the cent past years .
the century who the work has was dismantling by a instability incredible and of the massacres sanglants without precedent account essentially to the nationalism inconsidéré and to the extrémisme ideological .
this was also a century of progress without precedent .
the people who have lived in 1899 not reconnaîtraient more the world of today today .
he must hope that we have was of the lessons of the 20 century and that the progress made we Cohen a new century more fair , least déchiré by the war and the excesses of nationalism and of ideology , where the freedom economic and policy will respected .
if we have learned our lessons , the next century we réservera to we and to the world around of the opportunities inimaginables .
finally , honourable senators , in the world complex to which we we reluctant , I wish the better of the opportunity to the government , to , to the power now and to those who him succéderont .
he will enormous of wisdom for succeed to the future , many more that by all the years pensioners .
the hon. B . Alasdair Graham :
of , , I for all the honourable senators who have in to the a of the more important debates parliamentarians of our history .
I thank in particular the Leader of the government and the Leader of the Opposition for their good words .
I wish to say to the Senator Lynch - Lynch and to all the honourable senators that I their am grateful of their patience , of their good on and of the quality of the advice who me have was easier for the periods of questions and to of other opportunities when the former - Leader of the government has was called to participate , to the over of the two past years and half , to of the trade sometimes enough vigour .
he there has can - be had few few opportunities where he has was necessary of to call to the assistance of colleagues , but I hope that all the honourable senators understand that I me am always tried of provide the information the more specific and the more complete possible that given of the circumstances .
honourable senators , when Vaclav Havel , chairman of the Republic tchèque , has took the speak before the two Houses of the Parliament during of a recent visit to the Canada , he has spoke of a world in full community of a period of changes radical .
" the more great value , this is the humanity " , has he said , " and the state there for serve the well public in leaving the rights and the freedoms the épanouir to their appreciates . "
he has then leads the Canada , country who is of new Ways can of to the world better and has added that " the Ethics Canadian " from of a deep respect in the country .
the Ethics Canadian is no by many of other country , who the shared .
the chairman Chirac there has fact referring during of the Summit of the Francophonie , to Moncton , when he has described the Canada as the " a broader country who is and is of the rules of coexisting in the peace and the tolerance " .
as the chairman Clinton , who has ' of side the speech prepared to the Les - Tremblant and has spoke with the heart of the importance historic of the federation Canadian , we all , who écoutions , have thought to the manipulation white on which has was piousness our country , to the reform and to the justice social , to the compassion and to the commitment to the people .
the commitment Canadian to the well public is a concept who the ' to the heart of this community well special .
he has fact of our society an , civilisée and tolérante a place of hope and of promises for of the million of people of across in the world .
in listening his woman , His Excellency the Gouverneure general of the Canada , read the speech of the Throne Honourable October last , he me is wished clear that the passion national permanent , the passion for a balance and for the service of the public , the heart of this that we are and the sculptured of our origins , rest , in spirit , also vital and dynamic that to the all beginning of our history .
, well of the ways , honourable senators , the speech of the Throne we has propulsés in the future .
he as the seaway to the Canadians who their to a real identity , to a real affiliation and that to all the values who are the touchstone of our identity national in this end of decade difficult and périlleuse certainly , but how passionnante and rich in aventures .
now that the government has ' of the order in the Finance public and that the economy is strong and in full by , we can from to a new era of management public financially responsible , but to face human .
through to the improvement continues of the health financial of the country , we we efforcerons more of increase the income available of the households Canadian and of to to the businesses of the country of better support the competition in the economy based on the knowledge .
we have began to such the taxes even before the deleting of the deficit budget .
our strategy balanced we has for of reduce the taxes of someone 16,5 billion of $ on three years and , by the even opportunity , of rayer600 . Canadians of the roles of tax federal , all in by of the investment key in of the sectors as the acquisition of knowledge and the health , and that the assistance to the boyhood , of the sectors who are really important for the Canadians . We know however that the cuts of taxes not are that a part of the équation .
the Canadians the expect to many more of the government .
they passing the concept that the government not is that a percepteur of taxes and a abide - that he not think that to the results to short term and to the performance net .
the Canadians not want not of great vertical between the rich and the poor .
the they have agreed the durs with of the past years , graduated that they had the duty of the to in as that citizens of our great country , they have constantly fact know to the powers public that the insurance - illness Universal , by example , not is not négociable .
they have réaffirmé that the insurance - illness Universal is a touchstone of the identity Canadian .
of the care of health affordable and of quality are a over of the life to the Canada .
this is a in of our society , the expression of the compassion who fact of the Canada a country if unique .
in the speech of the Throne , the government Liberal repeat the commitment firm to maintain the a of the best plans public of the world .
, the heart of our efforts in s of Innovation the find the instituts Canadian of the health who will the promotion of the research medical to the her forefront of the Technology in all the regions and all the disciplines and who they a grant of 500 million of $ .
the government to work with his partners provincial and other on of the approaches beneficial in s of care to home , of insurance - pharmacare and of Benefit of services to of ensure that the Canadians nor of the better system of health possible .
honourable senators , we are to the enter of a new century .
the knowledge and the Innovation are the pierres angulaires of the success in the world informatisé .
the speech of the Throne we move a vision of a country who is prepared to before the opportunities area by a world where the knowledge is synonyme of power .
in the village occurring , our researchers are in competition with those of the world around , and not not simply with those to the has local .
they are in competition in a economy , a market world .
we know very well that that has of the impact important on the policy government because that we missions to a , to the has World , a , where the vision national is vital , where the partnerships play a role key and where the government highlights in place a structure for better been the energy extraordinary of the Canadians of all the walks of the society .
he has was for that work actively in partnership with our universities and our Laboratories , our industries axées on the know , the provinces , our communities , and that our organizations volunteers and our agencies Cultural who are a work excellent and extraordinary .
the government has recognized that all the Canadians must have access to the acquisition continues of the know and power the an of the promise that represents the revolution undertakings .
we believe that the communities branchées not are not and not can be the apanage of those for who the know is synonyme of power .
they are to all the Canadians .
our strategy who is to plug the Canadians will of the Canada the country the more branché of the world and it on of the principle that the future of our country will closely with to the creation of a society fair and united in the possible of access to the information .
in the framework of this strategy , of the initiatives as Rescol , the Program of access community and the program Ordinateurs for the school have for to the Canada of become a real democracy new on the know , a place where all the Canadians have the possible of travel in first class on the Highway of the information .
convinced that the Room of class is the drives of our democracy new on the know , we have ' on at the Strategy Canadian for the equality of the opportunity , who has helped of the hundreds of thousands of Canadians since 1998 and who includes the grant for the savings - studies , the grant for for of study and the scholarships of the millennium .
we have ' in place a infrastructure help to the research .
this is why we aggravate our support to the regard of the advice granting and we we lançons in a new business audacieuse , be the creation of the 2 . chaires of excellence in research of the 21 century in the universities Canadian .
the chairman of the University of Toronto , Robert Prichard , has out that this initiative to it only équivalait to hire the staff enseignant of a great university almost of the day to the next , a be net of drain incommensurable .
as the Prime Minister the has said :
a place where a environment widest and a good quality of life will of fine , a place where our young understand that gain not is not only a question of on of market , but well a question of value , of service and of commitment to our roots .
a country who has a Senators moral and which the citizens are profoundly to create a society World sustainable and a world better enraciné in the soil rich of the humanisme .
this are our children who we sung that .
they we sung that with their engineering and their dreams , with their hopes and their love , with their ability and their ingenuity , with their be great open on a world better .
however , the challenges who the stronger before them are of size .
their responsibilities are great .
honourable senators , this are them , our children , who must conquérir the future .
the government has took a commitment to the babies and the children of the Canada .
we we are " to their to of from of the good at in the life .
we we are " to their to a from , of the food and a environment widest .
we want to to the parents of from the more of time possible with their children for the months who looking their birth .
we want help the parents who must too often to of the choice difficult between their responsibilities professional and family .
we want to on at a regime legal who will of ensure the well - be of the children in case of separation or of divorce of the parents .
we want back more of money in the Budgets of the families Canadian in reducing the taxes .
yes , our children have of the rights .
they have the right of hope .
they have the right of dream .
they have the right to the equality in this magnificent country who is the ours and who represents a symbol of hope and of promises for of the million of people to the world , the Canada .
the hon. ë A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , before of to my comments in this debate on the speech of the Throne , I like all of first to my congratulations and my best wish to the Excellency the Gouverneure general to the beginning of this new mandate .
these 407 Canadians assume a great privilege and a enormous responsibility .
they used to them only 30 million of Canadians in our Parliament .
is few - few of the questions who not cessaient of me come to the spirit in rapid on the speech of the Throne and in rapid on the Parliament : how the there the ship of the state to the be of the 407 parliamentarians Canadian who are law of the monitor ?
is - this that the practice of the freedom is more strong or more low ?
the Canada that we suggest after our time to the Parliament will he better ?
in response to these questions , I have was took to the conclusion that our freedoms to the Canada sending on the basic of a so of shamrock of institutions fundamental .
the more high decision to the country , the Court Supreme of the Canada , is the target of attacks corrosives of the on of some cercles .
some of the attacks the more violent against the judicial are the fact of members Reform of the other place .
in his response to the speech of the Throne , the Leader of the Party Reform in the other place to said this :
... the courts have of more in more empiété on the prerogatives of the Parliament to the point where be can say that he is impossible of interpret the speech of the Throne before of have read , of the courts .
well well , honourable senators , some auditeurs have could find that exceeded .
of other have can - be found that this was a proposal original or charming .
personally , I not have not found that exceeded .
I not have not found more exceeded that the Leader of the Party Reform in the other place the this to other of criticism the courts of various representations for the judgments people in their assessment of the measures taken by the governments federal , provincial or territorial , by report to the Charter of the rights and freedoms .
this was as if the courts were in someone so responsible of the existence of the Charter Canadian of the rights and freedoms .
I rappellerais quickly to the Canadians that he has was the whatsoever of the two Houses of the Parliament and of nine legislatures legislation provincial for that be agreed the Act constitutional of 1982 .
he any that we , parliamentarians , évaluions the vision of the government and the programs who in clauses for determine if each of these programs achieving our courts in of the situations more difficult or least distressing .
when I have across the speech of the Throne , nothing in this last not me has sure that the government had other something to to that a program vacuum .
the government seems avoid the criticism political serious in tactical this strategy .
he policies to the courts the tasks distressing who consistent to interpret of the laws very general or too famous .
the government not has not known to evidence of enough of leadership , not has not had the vision policy and legislative necessary for to in so that the Parliament works of the manner scheduled to the origin .
this who night more to the independence and to the role of the power judicial these the time , this is that some levels of government seem difficulty understand the report who should there between the power executive and the power judicial .
the honourable senators have followed very carefully the judgment that has record the Court Supreme in the case Marshall .
this judgment illegality some rights derogate of treaties and has has of the consequences very déplorables in the province that I represents , the New - Brunswick .
for this time , the Prime Minister wisely the possible that the Court Supreme retienne the judgment in the case Marshall enough long for to to the government of adopt the regulations necessary for reduce the levels of a .
even if we such all to avoid this a , we were always to the taken with the question of with policy in the business of the more senior court of the country , who is clear how the power executive starts to play of the muscle in the field judicial and with of institutions who are part of our form of democracy Parliamentary .
honourable senators , he is dangerous that a Prime Minister ask to the courts of to their business of manner to promote the regime in place .
the bill is the bill .
he not must or the plier or the adapt for that it it the case of a party policy who is to the power .
, this separation least net between the executive and the judicial , he must add the reaction jerk of a great number of parliamentarians , particularly to the other place .
since the time that I am to the Senate , I have rarely , and I doubt even that this be came , heard a call for with of emergency a problem serious of order policy or social in to use to the clause of exemption of the Charter .
yet , we go often the people of the other place say that the clause of exemption can be used for bending a problem .
the Parliament must take well Access when a such proposal is worded .
honourable senators , I consider the Parliament as a of the three major institutions for the year of the freedom to the Canada .
a review of the number of days of Senate of the various legislatures legislation and of the two Houses is very says .
think to the behind that the government has ' to to the rentrée Parliamentary this fall .
the House of the Commons , the institution who is supposed incarner the democracy to the Canada , seat in average least of 120 days each year .
some parliamentarians the are why they should the strive of be attendance here and think that this is a all loss of time of sit to the Parliament because that the government to the power not the soucie not the any of their notice .
in well of the case , even of simple members of the government the see retirés of a Committee by example in as of earn for the be contrary to the power central .
these people - that it the rules parliamentarians as nothing of more that of the obstacles to preferred in the too of objectives supporters .
he there also those who are of notice that the St. of the saints , other said the Block Langevin , has all fact for mess the measures and the decisions who are taken by the government present in the framework of the Parliament .
why the Prime Minister and the ministers of the cabinet not want - they not that the Parliament seat ?
the response is obvious , honourable senators .
é the Parliament of his ability of study of the measures legislation and of important questions of appropriate is the technical who has was used by the government present for spokesmen the prerogative of this institution .
a matter , by example , we give the evidence that the Block of the Centre not is not prepared to to to the Parliament of the a of his task .
if the be the touch to the context on the Agreement final nisga' has , spoken between the nation nisga' has and the province of British - British , be note that he has was signed by the two parties after have was adopted by the Assembly legislative of the British - British and agreed by the Nisga' as .
the Hon. the Speaker Acting :
I must interrupt the hon. Senator Kinsella and him attention that the period of time allocated for the speech is has .
honourable senators , the Authorized of continue is - it granted ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator Kinsella :
honourable senators , before that the Parliament has had the opportunity of excellent the treaty nisga' has , the Minister of the Affairs Indian the had already signed .
the obligation of to of the accountable to the Parliament irrite many the Prime Minister and the cabinet , who is became the group of reflection private .
, the within of the cabinet , the Prime Minister not the summer more of be the Prime among his our .
the nature up of the government the country also to all the levels .
the cabinet réprime the participation policy and the contribution of the members of back - some , of the members of the Opposition , of the committees and of the citizens .
, the level basic , the parliamentary of accountable to the Parliament by the searching of the Block Langevin is quasi nowhere .
this attack fundamental lancée against the responsibility to the Parliament is troubling and deserves that the be the ask if the speech of the Throne clarifie or not the fact that the government is always responsible to the Parliament .
in our form of government , dérivée of the of Westminster , the responsibility government is the - cornerstone of the practice Parliamentary and , in this discarding of government , he is felt confirmed that the cabinet or the Prime Minister dominent the service policy of the Parliament without that the members of the two Houses not be guarantee consulted .
I like to out the impuissance of the government to prevent the erosion of our system policy in certainly the university Philip Norton who , about of the failure of the government to the driver as the require the principle of the responsibility , wrote that with the years , the instruments of the Parliament the are émoussés .
he unless :
the government is also became more réticent to book his information to the House .
... ... ... great powers centralisés mechanization more to those that the be associate normally to a leads autocratique that to those of a government democratic .
and that :
the Parliament is the forum central for discuss of the use and of the abuse of power policy .
I like in ending speak of this third sector to the service of our democracy , this is - to - say , of the agencies volunteers and not government .
I have was disappointed , honourable senators , of see that the speech of the Throne not was no as to this next Women of the role of the agencies volunteers in the world .
be not is no support breaking or losing of the agencies volunteers of the on of the government in place .
this is rather the contrary .
almost all the promises that the be ' in the speech of the Throne have with to a legislation whatever business by the government central .
since the Nations Nations have said the year 2001 Year international of the agencies volunteers , he me seems , honourable senators , that the government would could to a effort for to on of the clause of our country to out the importance of the agencies volunteers not government .
in conclusion , honourable senators , I like to to the professor Donald Savoie , which we have spoke to several occasions in of other opportunities , and to the thing released recently under the as Governing from the Centre .
in a analysis tranchante of the powers of the Prime Minister and of the changes s in the powers to the Canada , the professor Savoie states :
the cabinet , all as the Parliament , is now beyond .
the real debates political the held of more in more , , and this is also the case of the decisions who are often taken to the over of the meetings federal provincial of the first ministers , for the meetings roadblocks that the first ministers held for the prohibit of Team Canada , in the office of the Prime Minister , to the Council private , to the Department of the Finance , in the agencies international and to the over of by international .
nothing not seems would that the human who Canada all the cartes , be the Prime Minister , and the agencies centraux who him allow of focus the power policy to the centre , have the intention of change what that this be .
the Prime Minister of the Canada is little submitted to the control institutional , of the least to the within of the government , who the International of act to his as .
that given of this change of discarding , be can very well understand the frustration of the members , and sometimes even of the senators , who not have nothing to say to the level of the implementation to the point of the political , and to who be give the order of to current a initiative of the government , often even without reflection no .
honourable senators , the speech of the Throne is the mechanism who allows to the government present of to on of his way of see the country and of give the their to the operating of this institution .
he is clear that the basis same of our democracy Parliamentary are species and that the be has not fact great - something for cutting the damage .
the hon. M. DeWare :
honourable senators , we , to the Senate , are all very aware of the importance of the education post as for the Canadians are that for the Canada in the together .
those who fréquentent the colleges , the universities and other institutions of education post in terms of the benefits incommensurables .
that includes the benefits financial who allow to the graduates of can to a level of life better for them - same and their families .
that includes also of other benefits least tangibles but all also important in words of quality of life , who allow also to the graduates of play a role essential in the contribution of their communities .
these benefits the transmettent then to the economy and to the society Canadian under the form , by example , of revenues tax more high , of economies of costs of the programs social and of cohesion social increased .
still more important of our days is the advantage competitive that a public active workforce give to the Canada in the economy World .
the businesses of the sectors in full growth of the knowledge and of the Technology of forefront investiront more probably in a country where they can would of the graduates well trained émoulus of excellent institutions of education post .
he is obvious that the government federal recognizes him also the role crucial of the education post to the Canada .
in the speech of the Throne , he has recognized " the advantage that represents for the Canada a with - of implement who is the more workforce to the world " .
the government has also should that , to the over of the three past years , he has took of the measures for from party of this advantage .
the speech of the Throne has has of the measures who those to facilitate the savings - studies for the children and has mentioned the scholarships of studies Canadian of the millennium who , that the government , is to to more affordable the studies collégiales and academic .
he has also mentioned the relief of the mechanism of would of the debts étudiantes and the improvement of the measures tax for promote the learning continuous .
in fact , I believe that he has spoke of " strategy " in évoquant the together of these measures .
the government said now that he that continue of the support on this strategy in conclusion several initiatives .
the speech of the Throne was the great announcement that the government federal :
... Brunswickers of the partnerships with the other governments , the agencies public and private and that with the Canadians and the may , to of establish a plan of action national in s of skills and of learning for leXXIe century .
this plan will the focus on the learning continuous , the tone to the problem of the low literacy in the adults and provide to the citizens the information which they have need for take of the decisions enlightened in view of parfaire their skills .
honourable senators , the speech of the Throne has statement three components of this plan of action , but I hope do that of other the there ajouteront soon .
more specifically , the government has said that he work with his partners to of :
d to to the Canadians of fund more nervousness the learning continuous ; and
d provide of the information to the has of the Canada on the markets of the work , the skills necessary and the opportunities of training to from of a triggered unique , accessible by Internet , by telephone , or in human in all the communities of the country .
honourable senators , all these measures can be very valid .
a action in these three areas worry , who have was cernés he there has close of two years by the Committee Senate Special on the education post , the is recognize and is attendue since long .
I wish also to congratulate the government of the be committed to improve the infrastructure of the know in which of the instituts Canadian of research in health , in rolls the support to the advice granting and in encouraged the universities and the instituts of research of the Canada to modern the cooperation international in s of research , even if the details are , I the as , enough obscurs .
after all , the R - D is a other sector key that has mentioned the Committee Senate Special of the education post .
I have found with happy that , pursuant to several recommendations of our Committee , the government seems recognize that he worth the only of draw of the researchers of Prime plan and of encourage our graduates to continue their career to the Canada rather that of the exiler .
we must to the situation more most for that our graduates of studies post remain to the Canada to of ensure the advantage competitive that we have through to our with - of implement workforce .
that given of the attention more great who is granted to the drain of the drain of the Canada , which the media speak many , this intervention is particularly timely .
in a study that he has made recently , the Conference Board of the Canada has said that the drain of the drain , who is of more in more important , threat of vider the pool of workers qualified to the Canada .
of more , the Prime leader of Newbridge , John Roth , has mentioned that his company will leave the Canada if nothing not is fact for Outbreak the exit of capital human .
by out that he rest to the Canada only 7 per of the does senior of Newbridge , he would said , that the daily Ottawa Citizen of the 12 November , this who following :
, what good have a seat social to the Canada when the more great part of the team of the leaders of the company is part ?
that given of the fact that 22 . employees of Newbridge working to the Canada and that , each year , the company commitment the quarter of the engineers graduates trained to the Canada , be not can take that to the lightly .
even Statistics Canada , that be has criticized for have Refrigerated the importance of the drain of the drain , has admitted that the graduates Canadian who the pertinent to the south of the border are often the best , the more brilliant .
even if several causes have was relevées for explain this migration tragic , he is clear that the system of education post to the Canada is a factor .
I remind to the honourable senators that the Ottawa Citizen of the 12 November attribuait also Mr. Roth the note next :
the quality of the diplômes in engineering and in technology Achievement to the Canada is excellent , but I am that it not - to because of the funding inadéquat of the system of education .
honourable senators , we must we ask if the measures that the Liberal than in the speech of the Throne alternatives , as the said the government , for establish " a strategy heartened to operating the advantage that represents for the Canada a with - of implement who is the more workforce to the world " .
in fact , a time implementation in implement , this strategy sufficient it to maintain the quality of our with - of implement workforce ?
I think that he must to many more in the sector of the education post for to the results that the government we has promised .
I would favourite that the speech of the Throne we move a little of substance for enrober these words to the way who the want rassurants .
I would still better loved that he there be question of some sectors of the education post that the government seems have completely overlooked , of the sectors who , to my notice , are a importance capital if we want advance on the plan of the know to the enter of the 21 century and not not any a backsliding or , with a little of opportunity , to simply of the on - place .
in the it of the comments made Mr. John Roth , of Newbridge , I to speak more particularly of the funding of the education post to the Canada .
the Committee which I am part has qualified of extremely priority the assistance that the government federal and the provinces overwhelmingly to the education post .
the Committee has also recommended that " the government federal , all in by to respect the skills provincial , renouvelle the firm commitment in the sector of the education post " .
the under - funding of the universities and colleges Canadian , result in part to the cuts to the Transfer Canadian in s of health and of programs social , has has , between other things , a increase of the costs of tuition , a deteriorating of the equipment and of the infrastructure physical and that a inability of draw the members of the body professoral the more qualified in the institutions post of a coast to the other .
the costs of tuition high into including of to the education post inaccessible to of many students Canadian .
the perspective of obtain the had and of be then criblé of high debts of studies that the scholarships of the millennium not into hardly of reduce many can , by example , be a part dissuasif crucial .
the he is important of to of the loans and of other forms of assistance to the clause of the students , he must however limit the are that a student should have to borrowing .
I me méfie of the promise that fact the government in the speech of the Throne of facilitate the funding of the education permanent .
the he will simply help the students to borrowing more of money and to decrease their debt , I not believe not that this be the solution .
this would to the disker before the boeufs .
however , if the government the move of to more of scholarships or of enemies brought of debt , this promise me paraîtra more positive .
the Canadians will impatients of see to the over of the two next years this that the government has to the fair to the spirit .
in addition , we have extremely forward of see how the government and his partners will in so , as the for the speech of the Throne , that the skills of the skills suive the pace of the evolution of the economy .
I hope do that that not the restrain not to cerner the professions , the as and the jobs in which be will need of graduates in the years to come , though that be a business important .
this initiative should rather and on of the measures concrete to to help the students to obtain the education and the training necessary for satisfy these needs .
I the as , the Canadians will of close this that the government federal will to the over of the two next years to this regard .
I believe that the Canadians not should not have to expect two years before that the government é the promises that he has made in the speech of the Throne regarding the education post .
I remind to the government that he must act as now in this sector criticism .
I remind also to the senators that this report of the Committee is already old of two years and that he was pressing of the table .
the Senator Graham has was very provide in promises on the future of the education to the Canada .
he is very eloquent .
he there has two years , this are of the words of despair that the students , the bankers and the researchers we had Luncheon on the of of the education to the Canada .
this not was not a picture pleasant .
he is therefore time that the government consider the education as a priority in the program for the new century .
I must really congratulate the Senator Graham for the comments that he has made today today .
honourable senators , I could speak at of the education post and of the education permanent because this are that of the questions who me held to heart .
I hope in have the opportunity in a it future .
I will however from to the other aspects of the speech of the Throne that I to to , this is to say the Access and the right of visit of the children .
he is , all of first , of to a sure historic .
I have had the honour of be member of the Committee Joint Special on the Access and the right of visit of the children , up in October 1997 .
the government had created this Committee to of as a promise that he had made for the ensure that the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology , which I was chairman to the time , consider the new lines guidelines federal on the pension food for children .
the 23 members of the Committee , representative five parties , have therefore spent the year next to hear of the hundreds of witnesses and to study the serious questions regarding the families affected by a separation or a divorce .
in December 1998 , the Committee has tabled the report entitled : " Integrity the love of the children " .
the report " a long series of recommendations to to recentrer on the child the system adversatif who there for the Access and the right of visit of the children .
the more important recommendation proposed of the changes grateful that the mother and the father were all two continue to play a role important in the life of their children .
these recommendations were centrées on the concept of Access shared , this who means the taken of decisions Joint and the agreement between the parents as to the sharing of the time and to the arrangements résidentiels .
through to the Access shared , the father and the mother have actively questions in the care to give to the children .
in May 99 , the Minister federal of the Justice has released the response detailed of the government to the report of the Committee .
I have was pleased of learn that the government the step to support the major recommendations of the Committee Requesting a approach to the right of the family rather centrée on the child in the case of separation and of divorce .
we were all well fébriles , and even exaltés , the day where we have learned that the Minister would to in application our recommendations .
... with his partners provincial and territorial , he the emploiera to reform the right of the family and to strengthen the plans of support to the families to that , in of the situations of separation or of divorce , priority be given to the needs and to the best interests of the children .
this or is clear that the government recognizes that the Access of children and the access to those - this are a importance capital for well of the Canadians and that the concerns provisions to the system present not disparaîtront not .
I hope that the government has the intention of speed his implementation in implement denies of the recommendations on the sharing of the task parentale contained in the report " Integrity the love of the children " .
after all , the speech of the Throne far usually the priorities of the government for the session which he there of point of departure .
that given of about recent be that of the election federal general will there of here 18 months , well before 2002 , the Canadians could the expect to of the progress more quick .
I hope that this not are not of false hopes , but , the of the peerage performance of the government in this who with the questions of Access and of access , I have well afraid that they not be disappointed .
however , be can always hope .
between - time , of the hundreds of children not will not heard and ressentiront the pain of households brisés .
honourable senators , I me am of have had the opportunity of speak on these two questions of the recent speech of the Throne , who in contains , well heard , many of other .
of other senators have already very well has some aspects of the speech and of other the imiteront without doubt .
in as of conclusion , I like express the hope that the government listen and that he will that of the concerns well hands and of the suggestions reasonable of my colleagues on of this side - this of the chamber .
bill of bill on the Assent Royal
second Reading - Adjourned of the debate
- honourable senators , I must explain of first this that the this bill of bill not is not .
contrary to the fanfare who have circulé recently in the media and , , he not for not the abolition of the ceremony of the Assent Royal such that we the know and who is observed here since 1867 .
the bill of bill , addition that he discretionary the ceremony traditional , pourvoit to a procedure different , to know a statement written , similar to the who is followed to the Kingdom - U and in of other country of the Commonwealth .
the held of the ceremony traditional would required in the case of the Prime bill of bill of appropriation presented during of a session and to the least a time by year civil .
the honourable senators who were attendance to the time the will that a bill of bill to little close identical to the bill of bill S - 7 , the bill of bill S - 19 , had was presented to the Senate by the Senator Murray , then Leader of the government , in July 1988 .
the Senator Doody had open the debate to the step of the second Reading few days more later .
the debate had an in September but had was of short office because the priorities of the majority to the Senate were then , and not were not foreign to the disbanding of the Parliament the 1 October .
the arguments advanced by the Senator Doody he there has 11 years are still valid today today and a great part of my arguments are organizations of the space .
the last effort in this sense has was fact to the Senate to the over of the last session before of be , him also , victim of the prorogation .
my remarks will therefore similar to those that I had made to the time .
maintain the ceremony of the Assent Royal such that we the know and Authorize a statement written as posture is a about who has was raised to the Senate to of many occasions .
in 1983 , the Senator Frith has presented a inquiry regarding the desirability of be of the procedures of Alternative for the statement of the Assent Royal for the bills of bill .
, the on of a recommendation made in March 1985 by the Committee Special on the reform of the House of the Commons , the Committee McGrath , as to the Adopted of a new procedure for the Assent Royal , the Committee Standing of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure , chaired by the Senator Molgat , has recommended of the changes from in the even sense .
a Reading careful of the debate on the report presented by the Senator Molgat as a support General for the idea , but a disagreement as to the manner of the to in application .
be has found a solution in what the bill of bill S - 19 mentioned more earlier , a bill of bill who is death to the Paper in reason of the prorogation least of three months more later .
the bill of bill S - 7 , as the has fact the bill of bill S - 19 , resumed the principles of this report .
the section 5 of the Act of interpretation has that the Assent Royal foundation to the date of into in effect of a bill , to the condition that no no other date not be set .
well that the ceremony of the Assent Royal as such not be which in no text of bill , the thing of Beauchesne in give a descriptif .
the Clerk Deputy of the Senate is responsible of the organization matérielle .
the Canada is the only country to have which this ceremony official who does the presence of the sovereign or of the Governor General or of their representative .
the report McGrath be that " the Canada continues of to call to a practice using by the Parliament British in 1967 .
in fact , no other country of the Commonwealth not the has remained . "
, the Kingdom - U , the Assent Royal has required the presence of the monarque until in 1541 , when the Lords commissioners have was law of represent the sovereign .
as we the know all , the Parliament the up of three entities , the Queen , the Senate and the House of the Commons , each the vital to the enacted of a bill of bill .
our ceremony of the Assent Royal rassemble these entities for the last step of the process sometimes long who reciting the Adopted of a bill of bill .
well that the Queen not refuses not the Assent , he must all of even the ask .
a commentateur has wrote that the Assent Royal is always a formality necessary , but nothing of more that a formality .
I am , all as of other , that this who should be a event important not be became a ceremony of routine who not raises that a low curiosity in those who the find to in be witnesses by accident .
too often , the Governor General not can be this , and he is difficult and clumsily of find a Governor General Acting to short notice .
too often , the Acting must expect over - beyond of the hour convenue , in reason of deliberations incidental of the Senate .
the members attendance are usually least many that the hosting , particularly if the Assent is scheduled after the adjournment of the House .
a Assent Royal given later a Thursday after - afternoon means that little of senators will attendance .
he from a climate of indifference , rather that of respect , to a ceremony who , well that it be in great part a formality , is however essential , and who we remind the evolution of the regime Parliamentary to the over of the centuries .
some would that the Assent Royal is archaic and should all simply be been .
I not me bothersome not in this debate today today , except for say that , in the legislation where the Assent Royal is exigée , people - the as it the deserves in up to the ceremony with respect in reason of this that it means , rather that of the consider as a interruption inopportune of the business parliamentarians .
not would - he not better of reduce the number of the ceremonies traditional to the over of a session ?
in for a procedure different , the Parliament approuverait , in fact , the importance of the ceremony traditional that represents the Assent Royal in in by a opportunity special , well denies and to which assisteraient several people , rather that a obligation which the repetition dilue the means .
the Opposition to this bill of bill come of those who are that this not be that the pre of the end of the elders such that we the know today today .
the bill of bill S - 7 with yet that of these fears .
the other procedure who is proposed is to to a Assent Royal not traditional to the opportunity , when he is difficult for the it of the hear on a time who is to all , and and to ensure that he there has more that a senior of parliamentarians who there meetings .
this problem become still more renovations when the House , in the framework of the delicacies of the wrote Parliamentary , renovations in the Block of the Western , and will followed by the Senate when it retournera in the Block of the Centre .
of after I , he the is that of a reason enough for study carefully this bill of bill .
honourable senators , I have took be of not not to a argument long and detailed in favour of the bill of bill S - 7 , the of notice that these considerations of order General suffiraient to significant the interest .
( on the motion of the Senator Cools , the debate is adjourned . )
the communities francophones and acadiennes outside Quebec
the deteriorating of the services in French - Inquiry - Adjourned of the debate
the hon. Jean - Maurice Simard , to of notice the Wednesday 3 November 99 :
honourable senators , such that heard between the two leaderships in this House , and I hope that all the senators will of agreed , I recognize the speak to my colleague , the Senator Jean - Claude Rivest , for read my speech .
my speech could excéder the time would of 10 minutes .
the hon. Jean - Claude Rivest :
honourable senators , I like of first say all the happy that I have of me associate to this speech , of a way a little unusual , in the framework of the procedure of this House .
as the hon. Senator Simard just of the would , he me has asked of give Reading of the communication that he wanted to to the Senate to the opportunity of the Tabled of a report extremely revert .
I urge of , the together of the honourable senators to in take knowledge .
this is really a reflection very thorough and very documentée of the on of the Senator Simard on the condition of the communities francophones and acadiennes to the Canada .
the Hon. the chairman :
honourable senators , the leave is - it granted ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator Rivest :
honourable senators , I me is to you today today for you speak of a issue who is enormous of importance for I and for the country .
I to you speak of a question who me with to heart since always , a question of the more fundamental in which I have invested a great on of my action policy : the development and the throughout of the communities francophones and acadiennes of the Canada .
, the term of a reflection personal of several months , particular of research and of consultation serious and depth , I you states that my concern as to the prospects of future of these communities are were if major that I can you speak of a emergency national .
when I you about of emergency , when I say that it is of dispute national , I me based not only on the result of our research , but I puise also in this baggage of knowledge and of experiences that the be so in more of 30 years of life public .
I me according to this instinct that we développons all for succeed to chamber , to the better of our opportunities , this who is to the further " our loosely " .
and all , in my be , me said that if we not do not all of on , with any the conviction and the energy which this Parliament , which this country , are capable , he will soon too later .
we will , by refusal of act , by indifference , in the comfort of the paradigmes of our tours of ivoire political , failed the promise of a country who would could be if great , the he had only had the courage of the be .
because that if , a day , were people these communities francophones and acadiennes , who have contributed to will a identity Canadian no and respected across in the world , this will in great part because that the leaders of their country their will turned the on .
not is - this not the ultimate rebirth ?
we concerned of speak in we of this who raises the admiration , the respect and even the envy of any the planet .
we have afraid of remind to the Canadians that the NATO fédératif who has seen unborn their country is a NATO of a tolerance without precedent , between two Peoples voués to the principle of their equality step .
, the enter of the year 2000 , we about independently before these dinosaures idéologues who would we bring to a era least highest where the Canada of nine provinces on 10 was committed résolument on the seaway of the anglicisation of his society and of all his members , francophones , aboriginal or newly upon .
a policy who we has led all right to this Mr. é Laurendeau , of the Comission Royal of inquiry on the bilingualism and the Bilingualism , has called , he there has of that more of three decades , " the worse crisis of our history " , the of the Canada .
in amount , if the be not about not of the crisis , this is that it not there not .
if the be not admet not that the situation of the communities francophones and acadiennes of the Canada has reached a point criticism , be not sentira not the need of to what that this be for there be .
if the be not fact nothing , be not can not the to criticism of have fact someone something .
and all does for the better in the better of the mondes ... as in a conte of fées .
but , honourable senators , be not the touch not that .
the consigne is that if we we taisons , all the world must the nothing .
this who to say that when the leaders of these communities osent rise the Senators and exposing the abuse which they are victims , be the chamber of the nothing .
shirts !
be starts of first by feindre of ignore their existence .
but a time the bad time of the support timides past , a time the interest of the media estompé , be remind soon these fauteurs of unrest francophones to the order , in their by understand that the things are many better if the be not brasse not too the chaloupe .
be at the francophones minority in treat of the power .
this government federal who should be their ultimate advocate , this government which responsibility the responsibility constitutional , legal and moral of to respect the rights of these minorities , the in at to the victims rather that to the guilty .
not only refuses he of act , but the power federal the Strike that where they are the more vulnerable .
be cutting their funding .
and the leaders francophones , always proud , but of more in more miserable , understand soon this that they have to to the they want out of this Î .
as be said : they rentrent in the rank , they among submitted .
be their ask that the things can very well , and many better , the to " in scenes " , that they avanceront more soon as that .
the more récalcitrants are écartés , be dividing for régner .
I know that he there in has among you - and recognize in the other House - who the offusqueront of such about .
you you empresserez of list the programs government to the support of the communities of languages official , and the milllions of $ who the there rattachent .
you we parlerez of the success of this community , of the Year of the Francophonie proclaimed by this government , of the Summit of the Acadie to Moncton , of the Games of the Francophonie some in the year 2001 , here even , in the region of the capital national .
be the vantera of have celebrated the tenth anniversary of the amendment to the Act on the languages official , who give to the government federal a responsibility increased to these minorities .
I applaudirai and I you say : " Bravo ! "
course that this are of talk and good initiatives .
but I refuserai of go in I , imbu of the satisfaction of the duty accomplished , as of other in this Parliament are tentés of the to .
because our real duty rest still to to , because that of the economical and of the games , he there in will always for was the populace .
but no government not can never the glorifier of observe of this such , when , in the tranchées , of the francophones of a bravery implacable continue of struggle against of the forces who are to the anéantir .
you can we to all the more talk celebrations of the world , that not réussira never to complicated the truth of a government who refuses of support these francophones , then that this is his responsibility constitutional of the to .
even to the level school , the struggles not are not still finies .
you not bringing not of congratulations of my on when I see the governments provincial the sustains of the désengagement of the federal to the minorities for the delivering to of the délestages of responsibilities who by or stop the learning of the francophones .
you not be never change the sad reality that , more of 30 years after the Adopted of the Act on the languages official , the equality of the opportunity , the equality of the Peoples , real or precipitancy , is far of be In .
you not be never we to forget that , more of 30 years after that the Board Laurendeau - warned has recommended the positioned of the bilingualism official for the governments of the New - Brunswick , of the Ontario and of the Manitoba , a only of these provinces has agreed of the to .
the more bigger , the more puissante , the province who live the half of all the francophones of the outside of the Quebec refuses still of recognize the rights of the minority franco - Ontario in the Constitution .
the Hon. the Speaker :
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator Rivest :
as to the Manitoba , he will was the Court Supreme for him to understand that it gouvernait since almost a century in the illégalité total , without be the incidents disgracieux of 1984 , where the sacked of some politicians provincial the déchaînait against the Francos - thinks .
we should rougir of shame to think that to the time where I you about , a Franco - Ontarienne of the behalf of Gisèle Lalonde , with a small team , sillonne this great province in self , for gain of the support to the because of the enchâssement of the rights of the francophones of the Ontario in the Constitution .
the Department Heritage Canadian him has of the money for the to , me direz - you ?
I défie who that this be in this Parliament of chamber this that Ms Lalonde is in seaway of succeed with a budget of 35 . $ .
and you requesting that be the this to genoux before that .
you requesting that the Franco - Ontarians be éternellement grateful , when we their giving of the bouchées of economical for to our work !
not would - this not to we of go delivering the message of the community across to the Canada ?
the amount of the grant granted by the Department of the Heritage Canadian to the movement rehabilitated Constitution is so risible that be would tried of believe that be the has given in souhaitant that he échouerait .
this was difficulty know the people of the trempe of those and of those who have chosen of to the beacon , to and against all .
this grant not is - it not , however , woefully strike of the " of the federal in the money granted to the communities of languages official ?
where is past the principle of the équivalence , yet spent by the Court Supreme in the v. Mahé ?
how can - be hope that the communities can the expand when they not can benefit of the programs of the state Canadian , as that in considerable the majority ?
yet , provide their trajet of individual , the francophones of the Canada continue of the rise , as of the cerfs - volants , against the over , against all the instinctive .
they have believed this government , when he their has said that they were of the citizens equal , of the citizens to on full , that the Canada was also the country of the francophones , that they there had fully their place .
they the have so believed that this is this conviction his who continues of the to to the combat today today , in the hope that , earlier or later , their leaders the joindront to them , in real allies and not in false mécènes , for conclusion the implement that they have about of complete .
the time is come for we , in this Parliament , of add all our Senators , all our efforts , all our means to those and those who , by the force of the discussed , are still and always to challenge the history .
this people refuses of die .
honourable senators , I you ask with of read the report that I have tabled more earlier today today .
this is a work seriously , sincere , without claim and martyrdom of mired .
I you ask of keep the spirit open in moved these lines , of keep your be and your coeurs open .
some states , as some of the about that I wish today today , not will not your happiness .
we can however act .
we must act .
I you ask of reflect on this a , to the page 38 of the report , who the reads as following :
he is surprising of see that , in despite of the coverage let , who is well more to an and to esteem the controversy that to rapporter the good new , the opinion public Canadian , as the note a analysis of the professor Stacy Churchill , is take strongly in favour of the political on the languages official to the over of the 25 to 30 past years .
the analysis the has also led to the conclusion that the authorities government have abysmally failed in their attempts in view of inform the Canadians of this support .
this is the secret the better in to the country .
that is - this that that we said ?
, my notice , that we said not only that the Canadians of language English to that the francophones have their place among them , with their institutions and their services public , but that the only presence of these communities minority to the within of their society fact also part of their own identity Canadian .
being Canadian for them means , between other , accept that around of we , of other Canadians choose of live in the a or the other of the languages official .
that means also that the Canadians understand the difference between the bilingualism individual and the duality linguistic .
human not ask to anyone of learn and of speak the two languages official , though we can assume that in a world perfect , this would course the ideal .
I you ask , honourable senators , of met this challenge who the with to the state Canadian .
the unkind is today today favourable to a recognition puissante , résolue and irréversible of the community Canadian .
the time is come of from to the actions , of to and of an a will national in favour of the equality of the francophones and of the English of the Canada .
former - Minister of the Finance of my province , I would the last to technique that we retournions to the folles Estimates who we have of the deficits of a past still too recent .
but the government is currently in Position financial solutions for beginnings to invest in the construction of the system institutional who will to these communities a opportunity equal of succeed .
because this is a implement to conclusion that we have bogged to the abandonment .
as to I , I believe that this Investment in our only French in is a who not would never should be reduced or freiné .
of more in more , all the Canadians liquidity the strengths of the bilingualism and of the federalism .
they have seen of their be , to Moncton , recently , how a reputation of openness and of jurisdiction linguistic their reflecting of the doors we fermées on the world , particularly on the Europe , this superpuissance economic in become .
they have heard the Speaker of the France boasting a Canada loving , rather that of get the francophones of the Quebec to the separation - this who was until - that the only remember that several of between them had of a such visitor .
of more in more of Canadians of the majority , also , the concerned of the erosion cultural and linguistic of their fellow minority .
they understand that a Canada without his communities francophones not is more the country which they are if proud .
be has seen , in the because of the Hospital fought , by example , of the alliances inédites and inespérées between the community franco - Ontario and of the members of the community English of this province and of , to the Canada .
that are - we for understand that the people we has exceeded ?
that expect the governments of this country and of the provinces for understand that the new generations not want more of war linguistic destructives , that he is time of from to other something , of build with confidence on the basis that we have jetées he there has 30 years ?
memories - we only why , to the over of the it years 60 , the Board Laurendeau - warned spoke of the crisis the more serious of our history .
this is that they had including that the country was to the on of the apartheid , that he was for of the actions radical , and soon , if the be applauding see the Canada survive to the déchirements who the menaçaient .
of more in more of these people of the Quebec who the were always identified as Canadians - Français s now the say Quebecers of first , if exclusively .
the Quebecers not accept more of be minorisés to the Canada , they deviendraient specialty in them .
of the even way , they concédaient that they not have never their full place in this Canada where their fellow had - all the affronts , that where the education in French was still illégale .
has be about this who we has wishes to the situation that we are today today ?
the first ministers provincial understand - they that this intolerance historic of their own governments is a of the sources of the séparatisme Quebec ?
the government of Ottawa includes - he that over - beyond of all the savantes strategies , of the plans A , B or C against these nasty separatists , he would can - be begin by the pre ?
how of sovereignists rêvent of a country all simply because that be not has never wanted their give , who their with , because that be has killed their dream Prime to minuses of political assimilatrices ?
honourable senators , I not you ask not of to in back .
however , I you ask of you remember , of we your wisdom and your reflection of prospects historic .
the report that I you commend contains 42 recommendations , which 10 recommendations major who make the framework of the plan of recovery that we you propose for the communities francophones and acadiennes of the Canada .
the task seems enormous , the challenge insurmontable , but he is to the legislation of the people of this country .
he is to your legislation , to our legislation .
this is a bill of society emballant , positive and generous .
but without the courage of the to , all that , all this that we represent , all this a décor who we live not to nothing say .
when the walls of the Parliament are their those of the silence , of the silence on the fate of the more vulnerable , we have lost our reason of be .
I have confidence that you me écouterez .
( on the motion of the Senator Kinsella , the debate is adjourned . )
( the Senate the adjourned to the Wednesday 17 November 99 , to 13 p.m. 30 . )
debates of the Senate ( Hansard )
wondering Session , Session st ,
volume 6,401 , Issue 8
the Wednesday 17 November 99
the hon. Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker
table of the Contents
' ' '
the Nova - Nova
the price international and national effort by the people of Lunenburg
the reform of the Senate
the agriculture
the hemp industrial - - obstacles to the exports to the States - United
the year international of the people seniors
Affairs routine
the union Monetary European
Tabled of the report of the Committee of the Affairs foreign
transport and Communications
Tabled of the Prime report of the Committee
society of development of the Cape - Cape
Tabled of the Prime report of the Committee Special
the Committee of selection
Presented of the fifth report
the freedom religious in China in report with the pactes international of the Nations Nations
notice of inquiry
PERIOD PERIOD question
the resources natural
the closure of the Corporation of development of the Cape - Cape - - announcement of the injected of funds - Position Position of the government
the Corporation of development of the Cape - Cape - - bill of bill to disbanding - - consequences for the miners and the staff
the Defence national
the closure of the army Cornwallis - Position clawback of the impressively commémoratifs of the chapelleSt. George' s
the Alternative of the helicopters Sea King - Position possible of the credit - lease
the Nations Nations
the proposal of the Party Reform of reassess the participation of the Canada - Position Position of the government
the health
the power of regulate the products concerning in the plants of équarrissage - Position Position of the government
order DAY THE
the business of the Senate
the Committee of selection
Adopted of the fifth report
the Act on the stopped judicial
bill of bill Amend - Second Reading
referred to the Committee
visitors of in
Affairs legal and Constitutional
notice of motion Requesting the Authorized of use the documents and evidence collected during of the study of the bill of bill precedent to the for of the study of the bill of bill present
visitors of in
Affairs foreign
Authorized to the Committee of until the date of Tabled of the report final on the amendment of the mandate of the Organization of the Treaty of the Atlantic North
the business of the Senate
the Estimates of the Estimates of 99 - 2000
Authorized given to the Committee of the Finance national of study the Estimates Supplementary ( A )
the Estimates of the Estimates of 99 - 2000
referred of the credit 25a of the Council private to the Committee Joint Standing of the languages official
the Estimates of the Estimates of 99 - 2000
referred of the credit 10a of the Council private to the Committee Joint Standing of the Library of the Parliament
the Code criminal Position Act on the system Correctional and the implementation in freedom under condition
bill of bill Amend - Second Reading - Adjourned of the debate
the Committee of selection
Report of the third report - Withdrawn of the section
Affairs legal and Constitutional
motion Requesting the Authorized of use the documents and evidence collected during of the review of the bill of bill precedent for the study of the bill of bill present - Continued of the debate
decision of the Speaker
the Conference on the equality and the participation of the women to the life public
inquiry
the federalism and the globalization
inquiry
the situation of the aboriginal and their future
inquiry - Adjourned of the debate
Affairs Social , Science and Technology
Authorized to the Committee of sit in even time that the Senate
transport and Communications
Authorized to the Committee of sit in even time that the Senate
the Board of customerdemands of the environment for the children
Adopted of the motion of institution
the SENATE
the Wednesday 17 November 99
the Senate is met to 13 p.m. 30 , the Speaker the to the Chair .
prayers .
the Nova - Nova
the price international and national effort by the people of Lunenburg
the hon. Wilfred P . Moore :
honourable senators , I rise today today for recognize the price international and national that have received recently the city of Lunenburg in Nova - Nova and his citizens .
the Friday 5 November 99 , the city of Lunenburg has received the price of the port of the year of the American Sail Training Association , of Newport , to the Rhode Island , during of his ninety - seventeenth meeting Annual held to Boston .
the members of the ASTA come of across in America .
this price is has double to the community who or a support important to the ASTA and recognizes and encourage the navigation to voile .
this is the first time that a port Canadian times this honour .
, the over of the even meeting , the Captain Daniel P . Moreland , boss of the three - mâts Picton Castle , of Lunenburg , has was honoured in as that instructeur of navigation to voile of the year by the ASTA .
the Captain Moreland has across the world to on of the Picton Castle with a crew up in majority of novices , when the at has left the port of Lunenburg in November 1997 for the odyssée historic of 18 months .
Mr. . of Villiers has of generously the half of the price of 10 . $ to the Library of Lunenburg for the help to continue the excellent work .
we félicitons and saluons the city of Lunenburg , the mayor Laurence Mawhinney and the counsel , and that his charpentiers of ship , his forgerons of Shipping , for his traceurs - patronniers of canoe and his people very health .
we félicitons the Captain Daniel P . Moreland and Marq of Villiers for their businesses and the price that they have obtained .
the reform of the Senate
the hon. Donald H . Oliver :
honourable senators , the week last , the government John Hamm , of the Nova - Nova , has took the legislation who the numbers .
then that we scenes of the season of the illiteracy of 99 , the legislature legislative of this province has took a initiative very important for protect the security of the public in be a Position firm to the regard of the semiconductors in of of highest .
in Nova - Nova , these semiconductors are responsible of close of 40 per of all the Late on the highways .
the government Hamm has employee of new measures who , he the hope , will accepting the people of driver with of the libraries affaiblies , this who should fall the number of tragedies insensées and protect the security of the people of the Nova - Nova .
the 1 December , a new legislation legislative will from of two to three years the office of the suspension of the for of a conducteur recognized found of a second offence for conduct in of of highest .
a third offence will a suspension of a office minimum of 10 years and a fourth offence the means by a suspension to life of the for .
the new legislation legislative will also the suspension administrative and immediate of the for for a period of 24 p.m. in the case of the semiconductors which the rate of alcoolémie the at between 0,05 and 0,08 .
this government has fact evidence of leadership in be of the measures who resserrent the laws and who are more get to the place of the people who conduisent in of of highest .
almost all the provinces have now adopted a program of suspension similar being to the semiconductors in of of highest , and good number of between they have succeeded to reduce of way substantial the number of accidents .
in quality of legislators federal , we can from many of lessons of the experience of our Provincial provincial who have clearly learned the each of the other .
the Senate is constantly in butte to of the attacks and dépeint by of many people as the a institution who , that the majority of the Canadians , is needless .
the Continuing Scandal of Canada' s Senate , in which he unless that the Senate such that he there today today not its no value real .
honourable senators , responding in numbered Mr. Hoy and to the rest of the Canada to what point the work that we our here is important .
I believe in the reform of the Senate , but of the books and of the sections of the such which I just of speak not are that attiser the calls in favour of the abolition of the Senate .
he is time that we assumions a leadership .
now the example of by the governments provincial as the government Hamm and montrons to all the Canadians to what point the institution which we do part is valuable .
the agriculture
the hemp industrial - - obstacles to the exports to the States - United
the hon. Lorna Milne :
honourable senators , I will to the point to the about of a question that I have should here he there has few weeks .
, this time , a conflict opposait the Kenex Limited , of Pain Court in Ontario , to the customs and to the Agency of fight antidrogue of the States - United .
I am pleased of attention to the Senate that the problem has almost was fully resolved .
then that he rest still few points to with , he there has a week , a any of seeds of hemp in from of the Canada has understand without encombre the customs U.S. .
the Agency of fight antidrogue and the customs U.S. have contribute to not not before of other chargements of hemp expédiés to the States - United by Kenex .
I wish for the moment to congratulate the Department of the Affairs foreign and of the Trade international for the assistance that he has made to Kenex in view of with this case to the advantage of this business young and dynamic .
my congratulations to Kenex .
this is a good new for the farmers Canadian .
the year international of the people seniors
the hon. LoisM. Wilson :
honourable senators , the Year international of the people seniors décrétée by the Nations Nations is to his end but , that given of the ageing of the public , the reason of be of this initiative remains full to the be of the senators .
he must also to a more great attention to the inégalités in s of care of health and of well - be that the be be in the people seniors to low income , the people seniors alive only and the one women to of the problems of health accessibility and without home fixed .
the fourth Conference World Annual of the Federation international on the ageing , who has had place to Montreal in September 99 , has been a statement .
the document the concern of this that the principles that the Nations Nations have adopted in 1991 in favour of the people seniors not are not still recognized or respected Regional and that the implementation in implement of the plan international of action on the ageing adopted to Vienne in 1982 it still to severely .
is this that the Committee of the rights of the man of the Nations Nations said in November 1998 to about of the to of the Canada in the application of the Convention of the Nations Nations Current to the rights economic and social :
... that the Canada submit a below of poverty official and this in place to all the levels a program of assistance social who will a quality of life reasonable for all .
during of the meeting who the is held to New York , the country third - mondistes have indicated that only 8,5p. per of their people respective vivraient until to 60 years .
in Africa , this over not is that of 3 per , while that it is de24p. per for the Europe .
he responsibility to those who , as we , wish the changeover of a world new of to of very close the situation of these continents of the poverty and the of the îlots of poverty who exist to the within of the public ageing of the Canada .
the question of the poverty of the people seniors must be analysée in the context of the development , of the Elimination of the poverty and of the exclusion social soulignés to the Summit world of Copenhagen for the development social , given in 1995 .
after several years of decline , our program of assistance addition - sea is of the least stabilized , but he mériterait of benefit of appropriation complementary .
he mériterait also of coordinating the action with the of the program of allègement of the burden of the debt of the majority of the country debt and with the initiatives to to promote the employment and the health for the people seniors .
the Nations Nations have was invitées to organizing in five years a conference World on the ageing , to the over of which will have in magazine the progress made by the different States for the implementation in implement of their plan of action in favour of the people seniors .
I am sure that the bill will avalisé and that the point that will then the Canada on the situation of his people seniors démunies , vulnerable and without from will positive .
Affairs routine
the union Monetary European
Tabled of the report of the Committee of the Affairs foreign
the hon. John B . Stewart :
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when consideration - we this report ?
the Senator Stewart :
pursuant to the paragraph 97 ( 3 ) of the Rules , I move that the study of the report be placed to the order of the day of the next Senate .
the Hon. the Speaker :
pleasure - he to the honourable senators of adopt the motion ?
( the motion is agreed . )
transport and Communications
Tabled of the Prime report of the Committee
the hon. Lise Bacon :
honourable senators , pursuant to the section 104 of the Rules of the Senate , I have the honour of table the Prime report of the Committee Senate Standing of the transport and of the Communications , regarding the Estimates incurred by the Committee to the over of the first session of the 30 - sixth Parliament .
society of development of the Cape - Cape
Tabled of the Prime report of the Committee Special
the hon. John G . Bryden :
honourable senators , pursuant to the section 104 of the Rules of the Senate , I have the honour of table the Prime report of the Committee Special of the Senate on the Corporation of development of the Cape - Cape , which with of the Estimates incurred by the Committee to the over of the first session of the 30 - sixth Parliament .
( the text of the report is to the Journals of the Senate of today today .
the Committee of selection
Presented of the fifth report
the hon. Léonce MLA , chairman of the Committee of selection , its the report following :
the Wednesday 17 November 99
the Committee of selection has the honour of to the
fifth REPORT
pursuant to the section 85 ( 1 ) ( has ) of the Rules of the Senate , your Committee studs the hon. Senator Cool - Losier as chairman " .
respectfully submitted ,
the chairman ,
LÉONCE MERCIER
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when consideration - we this report ?
the Senator MLA :
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate , I move that this report be examined more later today today .
the Hon. the Speaker :
you pleasure - he of adopt the motion , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( on the motion of the Senator MLA , the study of the report is placed to the order of the day more later this day . )
the freedom religious in China in report with the pactes international of the Nations Nations
notice of inquiry
the hon. LoisM. Wilson :
honourable senators , I give notice that , the Wednesday 24 November 99 , I call the attention of the Senate on the freedom religious in China in report with the pactes international of the Nations Nations .
PERIOD PERIOD question
the resources natural
the closure of the Corporation of development of the Cape - Cape - - announcement of the injected of funds - Position Position of the government
the hon. Donald H . Oliver :
honourable senators , my question the is to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
Monday , the Minister of the ago natural , Ralph Goodale , has announced that the government federal injectera 70 million of $ in the Corporation of development of the Cape - Cape to of keep the society of state in activity until in April 2000 .
he the is of a Fellows full of the on of a government who has supported and time that he not there had not of new funds federal available for improve the pension of retirement and the allowance of cessation of employment area to the miners of the Devco and their families .
the employees of the Devco the are fought during more of eight months for that the government improving the agreement .
the government Liberal has provided 111 million of $ to the for of the pension of retirement and of the allowance of cessation of employment , but 340 miners only will right to the benefits of retirement and 650,000 to the allowance .
this assistance financial federal to the society houillère for a second year of - is a Fellows unmitigated .
how the government ask he that he can provide suddenly of the million of $ that he claim not not have to of keep in activity the society that he has the intention of close ?
that means he that the government not has not forsaken the Cape - Cape and that he will of the funds Commission to the miners of the Devco who were complete the first year of the new millennium without employment ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I then say categorically and without fear of be contradicted that the government of the Canada not has not forsaken the Cape - Cape in the past and not has not the intention of the to to the future .
our commitment to the Cape - Cape the is continued .
and , all recently , the government federal , of our with the province , has ' on at a funds Special of development of 80 million of $ to of help the economy of the Cape - Cape to extension this period of transition very painful .
the government of the Canada continue of play the role for come in assistance to the people of the Cape - Cape .
in this who with the 70 million of $ , the closure of the Devco in as that society of state was have place of a manner very phased and very coordinated , to the end of December 99 . I am course that the Senator is to the aware of the very detailed program relatif to the resources human who has was public and presented in report with this for .
the government had présumé that , for to this program , he could be on some revenues from of the production of the mine Phalen .
this part of the plan was very important and our necessary .
the Senator and of other senators know that the mine has was closed more earlier that provided , in of the circumstances surviving .
the mine has therefore was closed immediately , primarily for of the reasons of security .
, because of this closure immediate , the revenues who him have for of continue his activities until extending December the are envolées .
two choice the overemphasized to the government .
the Prime was to was of the revenues for that he can respect the commitments that he had took to the miners and their families in the framework of this program .
I know that the Senator not approuverait not a such solution .
of , , of many groups of the Nova - Nova , there including of the members of the party , have said that this solution not was not acceptable .
by therefore , the funds have was some for ensure the withdrawal graduel of the government federal in the and of the mines .
and , the people who were forced of amend their way of life in service of this plan not be not their life suddenly bouleversée .
we are convinced that all the déroulera as provided and that the Alternative of the revenues from of the mining of coal is the solution the more viable .
the Corporation of development of the Cape - Cape - - bill of bill to disbanding - - consequences for the miners and the staff
the hon. Donald H . Oliver :
honourable senators , the bill of bill C - 11 , who allows the sales of the Devco , contains a section who is to are a section of the Act on the Corporation of development of the Cape - Cape that which the government must take all the precautions reasonable for ensure the well - be of the workers .
if this bill of bill is adopted , the government Liberal will he all simply close the doors of the society , back to the miners a payment unique do to least of a year of activity economic générée by the Devco , and the in about the hands ?
in the case contrary , what initiatives federal will with in implement for create of new jobs and for promote a new growth in the economy affaiblie of the Cape - Cape ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , of very major initiatives are in seaway of enforcement , which some that I have mentioned briefly .
in s of development economic , a statute of 80 million of $ who the add to the programs existing , this is a effort appréciable .
of even , the assistance granted to the miners and to the public of the Cape - Cape is important .
the Prime Minister the is yet committed to so this assistance and be the fact now .
frankly , I not me am not of included for the électricien of the Devco who receive a allowance of layoff of 80 . or 90 . $ and who décrochera a other employment six months more later .
this worker the tirera very well of case .
I me concern however of , who , to because of many years of work and can - be of a inability - , will of the difficulty to the least in the new economy .
as I the have said , be revoit this allowance and be attempts of determine if of other measures could be taken , in particular to of help the workers who in have the more need .
the Senator Oliver :
the Minister not has not fact referring to the clause of the bill of bill C - 11 that was my question Supplementary .
the Senator Boudreau :
except mistake , I me am committed yesterday to back this notice to the Senator Murray .
I will in back also a copy to the hon. Senator Oliver .
the Defence national
the closure of the army Cornwallis - Position clawback of the impressively commémoratifs of the chapelleSt. George' s
the hon. Gerald J . Comeau :
honourable senators , the hon. Leader of the government to the Senate the will that in 1993 - 1994 , the government federal has closed the army Cornwallis .
, the time , be has déménagé the impressively of the chapelleSt. George' s to the outside of the basic .
the Leader of the government to the Senate can - he we say when the Department of the Defence national that least these impressively in the chapelleSt. George' s ?
the people who have paid for these impressively , residents of the place and ancient recruits of the basic , want that these impressively be replacés that where they were .
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I know the matter which the Senator about .
these impressively have was kidnapping of a chapelle who was unused .
they the find now to Halifax , who is the more great basic other to the country and which the chapelle receives of the about all the days .
be has decided to a sure time of the dramatically in this chapelle for that the people can the see and the admired more regularly .
I believe understand that the chapelle of where they from is of new met , but of way rather sporadique , a or two time by year .
be has decided , for the moment of the least , that these impressively should stay in a place where they can be substandard and off by more of people .
of the representations have was with recently and be the before course on the question , but this is that this who has was decided for the moment .
the Senator Comeau :
I have a question supplementary , honourable senators .
the Leader of the government has said that the chapelle of Shannon Park , where the impressively are now which , there more often that the chapelle of Cornwallis .
be could can - be compare the figures of fréquentation , as that the fact sometimes between the House of the Commons and the Senate , for see if indeed the chapelle of Shannon is more fréquentée that not the was the of army Cornwallis .
however , this who is many more important that the fréquentation of the chapelle , this is the fact that the people who have offered these impressively live in the region of Cornwallis and of Digby and that of the thousands of recruits who are fellow by Cornwallis will the there on to the spring .
I think that they would very like of see the impressively that where they should be salaries and logical .
I ask to the Leader of support this initiative .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , the proposal of the hon. Senator that I me commitment to whether the fréquentation of a institution or of a service church me remind the précepte space following : " That , who not has never covetousness , challenges the first - " .
I not believe not that I would very inclined to be the number of people including to a whatever service church .
I understand however the sense that the Senator just of express and I not bring not of in to on to the Minister .
the hon. J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , I have I also a question supplementary .
I could without doubt look the Prime caillou .
if the Minister could know where the find the bancs of the chapelle and the he could see to this that they there be réinstallés , the chapelle would can - be a little more fréquentée .
the Senator Kinsella :
where are - they ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I could without doubt speak more later to the hon. Senator and find the bancs .
the Alternative of the helicopters Sea King - Position possible of the credit - lease
the hon. Gerry Germain :
honourable senators , my question the is also to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
it has with to a question that I have raised the 4 November regarding the helicopters Sea King .
I have mentioned to of larger occasions , all as the Senator Forrestall and of other to the Senate , the emergency of with this question .
I am went until to say - and I the say if we had a government Conservative , NDP - votes or Reform - that if nothing not was fact and the he there had a accident , the responsibility in incomberait directly to the cabinet , to the Prime Minister and to the Minister of the Defence national .
as number of other Canadians , I believe that we have forsaken our forces Armed for this who is of their provide a equipment course .
the cancellation of the given of the EH - EH has was a decision policy and I not am not sure that they would in service today today if the given had was grew .
however , the Leader of the government has said that I would soon a response to my question of yesterday .
could - he now me give a response more direct and clear ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , for this who is of the program of Alternative of the helicopters Sea King , in a sense , I can repeat this that I have already said to the Senate .
I have spoke to the Minister of the Defence national , who me has said that he the is for him of the question the more high in s of equipment .
the Senator Lynch - Lynch :
this is this that the government said always .
the Senator Boudreau :
the Minister has from a sure success .
the government the is said prepared to Services of the funds for of the programs important , as by example , of the under - submarines .
the Senator Lynch - Lynch :
how will the modernization ?
the Senator Boudreau :
the Minister me has said that this question is extremely priority for him .
I him have said , as I the attention now to the honourable senators , that I consider this question are priority .
I opposite to Halifax and he not there has not a city in our country where the military are held in more high believe .
we apprécions our the role that they play and the with that they are daily .
I will certainly support as that I the can all the efforts been to that the acquisition of the aircraft of Alternative of the Sea King the it the more earlier possible .
the senator Germain :
honourable senators , I not doubt absolutely not of the intention of the government of who of the aircraft of Alternative .
this is that the aspect key .
I about to as of pilot to a experience active .
the he must ensure 30 p.m. of maintenance for that a apparatus can steal a hour , the honourable senators can the imagine the peerage of of the aircraft in question .
anyone knows a little the helicopters knows to what point they are submitted to of important efforts and on .
I say to the hon. Leader that to my notice , we not have of other choice that of rent of the helicopters .
we must give to our military of the equipment doing who their will of secourir of the people who decision of the aventurer in sea to on of a at - to the broad of the coasts of the Nova - Nova or , .
I urge the Leader to to current the matter and I him ask of new a response to the about of the sublease .
the Senator Boudreau :
I remind to all the honourable senators that the government has took recently of the commitments important to the regard of the equipment of the forces Armed Canadian .
I have spoke of the under - submarines .
for the under - submarines , the are incurred are of 750 million of $ .
the process of Alternative of the helicopters of research and search Labrador is in over , and the are incurred in this case are little higher to 800 million of $ .
the government has also committed 30 million of $ for modernize the compound Aldershot , and he has also committed 300 million of $ to the as of the benefits , for improve the level of life of the members of our forces Armed in this region .
I not to not éluder the question of the hon. Senator .
in fact , I have fact of the research and I have a response Senate that I prévoyais table to the end of the period of the questions .
I can confirm to the hon. Senator that the be not for not , for the moment , rent of helicopters .
the senator Germain :
honourable senators , he is all to fact unacceptable of with our military to of such conditions in reason of the bad of of our equipment .
he must find a solution .
he me unpopular of duty say that , but I not so not to find of the words for describe the afraid that must certainly repeated the Pilots when they must to steal a apparatus who has need of 30 p.m. of maintenance for each hour of flight .
the hon. Senator can - he think to a other organization in the world of the required who fonctionnerait in of such conditions ?
the Senator Meighen :
it should close his doors .
the senator Germain :
the Senator Meighen has reason .
be the Board of the security of the transport , be the Department of the Minister Collenette the would close in reason of the peerage of of his aircraft .
I urge a time of more the Leader to reparler to the Minister for that he change his Position .
the Senator Boudreau :
I thank the hon. Senator for his comments .
honourable senators , I me as , but the Minister me has of the insurance that his first priority was the Alternative of the helicopters .
of any obviously , he recognizes , as all those who ministries the situation , that the helicopters must be replaced .
for this who is of the use of the aircraft , I me rassure to the idea that the helicopters not recevraient not of mission of flight if the people responsible not were not convaincues that they can the as .
as to the cost of the maintenance , some questions can the for .
however , we we happen of that and I hope that the aircraft will replaced also quickly that that can expectation the to .
the Nations Nations
the proposal of the Party Reform of reassess the participation of the Canada - Position Position of the government
the hon. Douglas Roche :
honourable senators , my question the is to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
the Party Reform , who form the Opposition official to the House of the Commons , has released a document on the policy foreign in which he said that , the he formait the government , the Party Reform réévaluerait the participation of the Canada to the Nations Nations .
given of that the UN is a - cornerstone of the policy foreign of the Canada since a half - century , what that be the party to the power , what is the Position of the government opposite to a proposal also a ?
the government has he the intention of answer in really clear the support to the Nations Nations , or will he to to this proposal the attention that it deserves , this is - to - say not not in to that ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , to as of Leader of the government to the Senate , I wish to express the support strong and an of our government to the institution that is the Organization of the Nations Nations .
of the Senators :
hear !
the Senator Boudreau :
he is incredible that a party policy responsible it the such of statement or this the such of Position seaway by the Party Reform .
the Reform not have - they nothing - of the history ?
he would better of not hardly to of attention to this statement , to of avoid of him legislation a whatever credibility .
he is incredible that a such statement can be made seriously to our time .
the health
the power of regulate the products concerning in the plants of équarrissage - Position Position of the government
the hon. Mira Spivak :
honourable senators , my question the is to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
in July last , he the is product a incident unfortunate to the Manitoba .
of the tested have was empoisonnés by a herbicide very powerful .
they have was expédiés to a plant of équarrissage where they have can - be was CANBAT to the moulée has to the plant , which has then served to esteem of the productions and of the chickens .
fortunately , however , that not has not was demonstrated .
the body federal , the Agency Canadian of inspection of the food , claims that the équarrissage is of the provinces then that the government provincial and the business of équarrissage in because believe that the équarrissage is of jurisdiction federal .
what is the Position of the government to the regard of the responsibility federal in s of products concerning in the plants of équarrissage ?
of even , on what data scientific the basic be for esteem the productions and the chickens with of the tested typical , and who knows what other restes of all they , then that be has had the example of the illness of the cow Mad in England ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I am well happy of the question raised by the Senator .
for there answer , I should have to my sides the Leader Deputy , since this is him the expert of the sector of the poses .
the Senator Forrestall :
I like better there see your colleague of the Cape - Cape !
the Senator Boudreau :
the hon. Senator raises a point important .
I not know all simply not enough the field for answer today today .
however , I will me inform and I him fournirai a response also quickly that possible .
order DAY THE
the business of the Senate
the hon. ë A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
I point the Rules .
honourable senators , the Opposition ask to the government of consider the possible of study now the report that just of table the chairman of the Committee of selection .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , we are of agreed and we giving to the Senate the leave of study now this report .
the Committee of selection
Adopted of the fifth report
the Senate on to the study of the fifth report of the Committee of selection ( as of Speaker to as " ) , presented to the Senate the 17 November 99 .
the hon. Léonce MLA :
honourable senators , I move the Adopted of this report .
the hon. ë A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I like deal few words to about of this motion of our colleague , the whip of the government , who is a excellent chairman of this Committee , a of the best in the history of the Senate .
I like express the happy that we have shortfall of this side of the House to the announcement of the appointment of our colleague , the Senator Cool - Losier , who just of the province of the New - Brunswick and who has fact a contribution remarkable since his appointment to the Senate .
we are very happy of support the motion of the Senator MLA .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , let - I of add a word in the debate on this report .
, the behalf of the senators who members of this side - this , I for the Senator appropriately in the report for with the as of Speaker good tempore .
this human has capacity with distinction the role of Senator , and I am sure that it the acquittera with the even distinction of the duties of Speaker good tempore .
I for also the chairman of the Committee of selection and all the senators who have in to the deliberations and took the speak for support the report .
( the motion is agreed , and the report is adopted . )
the Act on the stopped judicial
bill of bill Amend - Second Reading
the order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Fraser , seconded by the hon. Senator Gill , Honourable to the second Reading of the bill of bill C - 7 , Act amend the Act on the stopped judicial and a other bill in make .
the hon. Pierre Claude Nolin :
honourable senators , before of read the text that I have prepared , I to you remind that the bill of bill C - 7 is in substance and contributor the bill of bill C - 69 , which we had began the review to the end of the last session .
my remarks this after - afternoon will several time to as to the former bill of bill C - 69 .
not there see not that a attempt of you misleading in mistake , but the Bill bill C - 69 equivalent to the bill of bill C - 7 contributor .
before of planned my speech , I wish to thank the hon. Senator Fraser for have seconded the interventions that I have made in this House and that to the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional for amend the ancêtre of the bill of bill C - 7 , be the bill of bill C - 69 , to the level of the powers regulatory provinces to the Solicitor General .
I wish also to out that the Solicitor General has was with happy the changes that I have proposed to this bill of bill in June last .
I him in am very grateful .
these provisions help to facilitate the réinsertion social of the offenders .
of more , the Act Canadian on the rights of the human banned any discrimination to the people who have from a preventative of the Solicitor General of the Canada .
he is important of mention that the preventative not efface not the existence of the condemnation and that it can be automatically cancel if the human is certified condamnée for a act criminal .
now the Act on the stopped judicial for the consequences of the granting of the preventative , as the implementation under scellés of the stopped judicial of the offender .
honourable senators , the changes proposed by the government to the Act on the stopped judicial , by the through of the bill of bill C - 7 , is to increase the security of the public .
primarily , they are Canada to prevent the offenders sexual of with of the positions of confidence with of the children or of other people vulnerable .
for to this objective , the bill of bill C - 7 move of add a clause Supplementary in this who has with to the case particular of the stopped judicial of the offenders sexual réhabilités .
the new section 6.3 of the Act on the stopped judicial for that the Commissioner of the Mounted Royal of the Canada can include in the fichier automatisé of the relevés of condamnations criminal moreover by the RCMP , a indicateur or a marqueur who on the service of police by a research to of the for of filtrage that he there , relatively to a human , a matter scellé or a increased of a condemnation for a offence to uniqueness body scheduled to the regulations to the regard of which he him has was over a preventative .
this recommendation has was which to the unanimously by the ministers federal and provincial of the Justice during of their meeting of October 1998 , to Regina .
and , the agencies who may of the services to of the children and who want Services a volunteer or a employee up will now determine if the candidate has from a preventative to the regard of a offence sexual .
this audit not can be done that to two conditions : of a on , if the employment plaçait the postulant in situation of authority or of confidence by report to the children or to of other people vulnerable ; of other on , if , - this has contribute by wrote to the audit .
the " marqueur " signalera to the police who fact the audit to of the for of filtrage that his ask of disclosure of the stopped of a human réhabilitée must be particular of the fingerprints With of the human in question .
if the audit allows of establish that the human has already fact the subject of a condemnation for a offence to uniqueness body , the RCMP or the body officer in question who has by to the audit can ask to the Commissioner of the RCMP of back to the Solicitor General all matter or increased of condemnation to the regard of the individual .
the Solicitor General can decide of the relevance of book the content of the stopped .
if this last the allows , the RCMP or the service of police can bring the information to the body who in has fact the ask .
by against , the body not can use these information that in the framework of the review of the ask of employment .
for avoid of the abuse , the bill of bill for that this audit not can be In to a other end that the of study a ask of employment .
honourable senators , he me fact happy of you say that I am fully in agreed with the objectives and the principles who under - tend the bill of bill C - 7 .
he is clear that the security of our children and of the people vulnerable of our society will better protégée by these new measures .
by against , I wish to mention that several associations , as the Corporation Elizabeth Fry , the Criminal Lawyers' Association , have been of the reserves as to the policy on which the based the bill the of bill C - 7 .
the key concern of these groups the based on the fact that this bill of bill could jeopardizing the integrity of the system of preventative and the role in the psychiatric and the réintégration of the offenders .
they would , including , that the Solicitor General not has not established of way satisfactorily that the bill current on the stopped judicial and the preventative not enough more for protect properly the society of the prédateurs sexual who have was réhabilités .
of more , the Corporation John Howard and the Corporation Elizabeth Fry are that in can the access to the issues of preventative , be not give a false sense of security , in reléguant in the Shadows of other elements key of the selection of the staff for the positions of confidence by report to of the children or of the people vulnerable .
honourable senators , during of the business of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional on the bill of bill C - 69 , we have examined this question very carefully .
in this sense , I like to quickly the question of balance between the rights of the people réhabilitées by the Solicitor General of the Canada and those of the children or of the people vulnerable .
even if , to the be of some , the provisions of this bill of bill seem back in because the principle of preventative social on which based the operating of our system of should Earl and of preventative , this bill in so however to a sure balance between the rights of the human who has was accusée , condamnée then libérée and those of the children that we must protect .
honourable senators , he is obvious that when he the is of perpetrators of children or of people seniors , a only offence in is already a of too .
the consequences are serious and we must to all this who is in our power , in as that parliamentarians , for avoid that of such events the occur .
when I states that the bill of bill so to a sure balance between the rights of the two groups of individuals , I not trying not of minimize or of banaliser the problem , but I to the to in context .
when we about of actions criminals , of the treatment of the criminals and of to of the measures of fight effective and realistic against this such of crimes , we must see the things in a context comparative .
I can you say , in as that lawyer , that he is always very difficult of can to the perfect balance between the rights of the people , who have demonstrated that they could make a life normal , and the fact of avoid that the system of preventative not must a mechanism who masque the history of the people who into of to a danger for the children and of other people vulnerable .
this is a problem Laurentian .
in this sense , the government federal has agreed , with all the other authorities provincial and judicial during of a conference of the ministers of the Justice , of to in place a system of repérage of this such .
this is the consensus which are cent all these ministers .
this is a compromise , this is a proposal , who not will not to the so in a sense or in the other , but who is considered as the balanced and practical .
in response to the concerns legitimate expressed by some members of the Committee and some associations who are that the bill of bill not compromette the objectives of preventative of the process of granting of a shirts , I out that the bill of bill not for that a only exception to the benefits some of the preventative .
he for a system of repérage extremely ciblé in which are included of the measures of protection of the rights of the human réhabilitée .
I like now to the question of the regulatory - who , be said in from , has was to the heart of the business of the Committee of the Affairs legal - Current to the application of the provisions for to the marquage of the stopped judicial .
as you the know , this question me concern to the more senior point .
now , the section 8 of the bill of bill for amend the section 9.1 of the Act on the stopped judicial for that this new clause on the marquage of the issues of people réhabilitées on to a comdamnation for a offence to uniqueness body be implemented properly .
in under of the bill of bill C - 7 - therefore the bill of bill that we have before we , and this was also the case of the bill of bill C - 69 - the government can , by regulation , first , take the list of the offences i by the term " to uniqueness body " ; second , govern the inclusion of the marqueur to the regard of the casiers judicial and relevés of condemnation and the audit of these the ; third , define the words " children " and " people vulnerable " ; and fourth , govern the process of consent of the individual Canadian to the new section 6.3 , of the audit of the issues or of the communication of the information that the stopped contains to the body who in fact the ask and make in the regulation the factors that the Solicitor General at in consideration when he wants of Authorize or not the disclosure of the content of the matter of a human réhabilitée .
during of the appearance of the Solicitor General before the members of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional , the 14 June last , I have should that the powers regulatory , such that définis by the Bill bill C - 69 , were a question of policy .
, this effect , I him have asked several questions .
why the process of consent of the individual described to the new section 6.3 of the audit of the issues or of the communication of the information that the stopped contains to the body who in fact the ask is - he children only to the Governor in board ?
why the bill of bill not said - he not that he not the mass only that to the individuals who had was burdened for a offence to uniqueness body ?
even if all the speech of the government in the other House and to the Senate have always spoke of offence to uniqueness body , the bill of bill not was not as specifically to the uniqueness body of these offences .
why the bill of bill not contained - he not in as a list of the offences to uniqueness body even if of other législations federal , as the Act regarding the identification by the fingerprints génétiques , are a appendice who with clear the offences who are i by the provisions of the bill ?
honourable senators , when I have took the speak in June last , during of the debate in second Reading of the bill Bill C - 69 , I have should that the powers provinces to the Governor in board vigorously very important .
during of the testimony of the Solicitor General to the Committee , I him have mentioned that the be could with these questions in the insérant in the bill of bill .
for note honourable senators , that since few years , the government present - and the former government - attempts of from of several bills of bill the regarding legal or the process of operating of a legislation who could be filed or reticent when they are analyzed by the members of the Parliament , the committees Standing of the two Houses or the groups of interest .
that is , you in agree , very disturbing because the process of consultation for the study of a bill of bill and the study of a new regulatory not is not of the all the even .
in the case of the definition of the words " children " or " people vulnerable " , the officials of the Department of the Solicitor General have answered to our concerns of the way next :
in the case of " people vulnerable " , the definition not had not was her in the bill of bill because it could change to the over of the next years .
in this sense , he would therefore was difficult of define this term in the bill on the stopped judicial .
in this context , he was more benefit that the ministers can amend this definition by regulation without have to to a new bill of bill .
despite all , I have reminded to the Minister and to his officials that a part of the Code Civil of the Quebec with been and of way very specific of the people vulnerable for that their rights Political be protected .
in the case of the term " children " , the officials have should that this definition was already her in of other laws and that he not there had therefore no need of the include in the Bill bill C - 69 .
yet , the new Act on the system of justice criminal for the adolescents that we consideration to the over of the next months contains a definition of the term " children " .
contrary to this that have should the Minister and his officials , I am sure that this definition not finds not often .
of more , these same officials have should for justify these two oublis that the Department has followed the even approach for the changes to the annexes to the Act on the system Correctional and the implementation in freedom under condition .
now , these annexes are several regarding legal and regulatory who are need by ascertain .
honourable senators , I wish to out that several members of the Committee , which I - even , have fact out to the Minister that even if the section 8 of the bill of bill C - 69 , who has with to the power regulatory , said the fact that the offences any for the drafting of the list would to uniqueness body , the bill of bill not was no mention that he the mass only to the individuals who had was burdened for a offence to uniqueness body .
, several places in the bill of bill , be not was as that to the term " offence " .
by therefore , this list would could include a series of offences who not would not a uniqueness specifically body , this who would increased the scope of the provisions of the bill of bill C - 69 .
that is too include and too broad .
the officials of the Department have should that this list there already .
it has was indications in cooperation with the provinces for decide of this that he understandable of include on the list of the offences who must forecast of the offences of nature sexual to particularly of the children or of the groups vulnerable .
if it is already indications , why not not the have her in the bill of bill ?
that we would of the opportunity of the study immediately .
in make , the list of offences who will to the basic of the application of this new legislation could be many too include and it dépasserait widely the intention of the législateur .
I wish to you remind that the right pénal is basic .
a crime is a crime .
in this sense , he seems little appropriate of let these decisions to the power executive , only to the power executive , rather that to the power legislative .
of more , be not can renier the principle who to that all our laws be in agreed with the provisions of the Charter of the rights and freedoms .
finally , in the case of the consent , the officials of the Department have influencing that they not had not felt necessary of include in the bill the process of consent of the individual provided to the section 6.3 of the bill of bill .
in several other laws federal , this process of consent is this specifically in the bill .
honourable senators , for attempt of anyone the members of the Committee , the Minister has justified the inclusion in the bill of all these powers regulatory for of the reasons practices .
in the spirit , some of these changes can take enormous of time , particularly the they were to the subject of in review Parliamentary thorough .
in the case this , the government risk of the on in a situation that of other qualifieraient of high and that he not would not in legislation of go enough soon if , by example , the definition of the words " children " or " people vulnerable " or the process of consent of the individual were be reticent quickly for of the reasons practices or legal .
honourable senators , as I the have said , he is true that he is pressing of ensure to the protection of the children and of the people vulnerable against the prédateurs sexual .
by against , that not is not a reason for repeal the powers of the Parliament and of from addition the principles of our Charter .
this is for this reason that some members of the Committee and I - even not have not agreed the explanation of the Minister , his argument and those of his officials .
opposite to the magnitude of the criticism of the members of the Committee - you know that this is a history who finit well - , the Solicitor General the is committed to reassess the provisions of the bill of bill to the over of the was .
he me seemed more pressing of adopt the bill of bill quickly .
the 9 September last , the officials of the Department of the Solicitor General have presented to the members of the Committee of the amendments for correct the are of the bill of bill C - 69 .
of more , the bill of bill spécifiera that the system of marquage of the casiers judicial not the adressera that to the individuals who have was burdened for of the offences to uniqueness body .
for better encadrer this process , a list of offences has was added in as of the bill of bill .
I there that you understand that I about of the bill of bill C - 69 .
this last can be amended , by against , by ascertain .
then , the regarding respect " children " or of " people vulnerable " have was displaced , of the text of the regulation to the text of the bill of bill .
honourable senators , let - I of conclude in stand that still a time , through to the we of the members of your Committee of the Affairs legal and Constitutional , the bill of bill C - 69 and , I the hope well , the bill of bill C - 7 , have was our améliorés of way to this that the rights of the people réhabilitées and those of the children and of the people vulnerable be protected fairly .
, the any end of my remarks , I support the principles of this bill of bill .
he will examined as he the must to the Committee of the Affairs legal and Constitutional .
I hope that the government réintroduira the amendments that he had acceptance for original the bill of bill C - 69 .
we will , still a time , very deliver in your behalf , honourable senators .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , if no other Senator not to take the speak , I further of the before with the motion .
the hon. Senator Fraser , seconded by the hon. Senator Gill , move that the bill of bill be read a second time .
you pleasure - he of adopt the motion , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed and the bill of bill is read a second time . )
referred to the Committee
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when read - we this bill of bill a troisème time ?
( on the motion of the Senator Fraser , the bill of bill is referred to the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional . )
... more earlier ...
visitors of in
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I you attention the presence to the gallery of His Altesse Royal Samdech Krom Khun Norodom Sirivudh , vice - Prime Minister of the Kingdom of the Cambodge .
, the behalf of all the senators , I you wish the welcome to the Senate of the Canada .
Affairs legal and Constitutional
notice of motion Requesting the Authorized of use the documents and evidence collected during of the study of the bill of bill precedent to the for of the study of the bill of bill present
leave to was granted of to to the notice of motion :
the hon. Joan Fraser :
honourable senators , I give notice that tomorrow , the Thursday 18 November 99 , I move :
that the documents received and the evidence heard by the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional to the over of the study of the bill Bill C - 69 , Act amend the Act on the stopped judicial and a other bill in make , during of the first session of the 30 - sixth Parliament be removed to the Committee for the its study of the bill of bill C - 7 .
... more earlier ...
visitors of in
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I draw your attention on the presence to the gallery of a delegation of the leaders and other members of the group of the Montagnais of the Biche - St. - Jean and of the in - North of the Quebec , invited of honour of the hon. Senator Gill .
of the on of all the senators , I you wish the welcome to the Senate .
of the Senators :
hear !
Affairs foreign
Authorized to the Committee of until the date of Tabled of the report final on the amendment of the mandate of the Organization of the Treaty of the Atlantic North
leave to was granted of to to the notice of motion :
the hon. John B . Stewart , pursuant to the notice of the 16 November 99 , move :
that , by derogation to the order adopted by the Senate the Thursday 14 October 99 , the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign , authorized to to for in to report the ramifications for the Canada : 1 ) . of the amendment made to the mandate of the Organization of the Treaty of the Atlantic North ( NATO ) and to the role of the Canada in the NATO since the disbanding of the NATO of Warsaw , of the end of the War Cold and of the into recent in the NATO of the expulsions , of the Poland and of the Republic tchèque ; and 2 ) . of the - of the peace , particularly the ability of the Canada of there participate under the auspices of not any what body international which the Canada fact part , be authorized to to the report final to the more later the 15 December 99 ; and
that the Committee divested the powers necessary to the Electronic of the results of the study contained in the report final , and this until to the 24 December 99 ; and
that the Committee be authorized , notwithstanding the practices considered , to table the report with of the Clerk of the Senate , if the Senate not seat not , and that obedience report be being have was tabled to the Senate .
( the motion is agreed . )
the business of the Senate
the hon. ë A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I point the Rules .
we have received he there has a moment a notice of motion of the Senator Fraser .
a motion similar of the Senator Oliver is to the Paper .
be not seems not know very well if a motion Requesting the Authorized of use of the documents and evidence collected by a Committee Senate Standing to the over of a session order of the Parliament to the for of a Committee of even behalf established to the over of a new session and responsible of study the even about is consistent to the Réglement .
be not seems not very well know the Rules .
can - you we provide of the clarification to of suspending all misunderstanding ?
the Hon. the Speaker :
I thank the Senator Kinsella of attention this case .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I say simply that the ask just to about , even if I must mention that this case has surgi by on of the concerns of the Senator Cools .
I should can - be him independently the speak rather that of try I - even of summarized the question .
I say , however , that I as with the Leader Deputy of the Opposition that he would timely of ask to His Hon. of manner this question .
the hon. Anne C . Cools :
honourable senators , I would very pleased of add my grain of sel to the debate .
all of first , I like of the clarification .
is - this a point to the Rules ?
of what question are - we before ?
the Senator Hays :
this is a ask made to the Speaker of determine the acceptability of the motion , which notice has was of by the Senator Fraser .
the Senator Cools :
the Senator Kinsella the about he to the about of the acceptability of the motion introduced by the Senator Fraser ?
that me believe strange .
the Senator Kinsella :
not , the Senator Fraser has had of a notice of motion , which we understand very well the substance .
a motion similar has was introduced by the Senator Oliver the week last .
this motion has legitimately been of the questions of the on of senators , which the Senator Cools .
he seems there have to the least two schools of s as to know if , after the prorogation , the business made during a session by a Committee Senate on a about of can be removed to the new Committee .
, my notice , he any of clarify the question .
the Senator Cools :
honourable senators , I prévoyais to some clarification to this regard tomorrow , when I participerai to the debate on the motion of the Senator Fraser , but if the senators the wish , I can the to now .
I trying of determine in what context I say to the questions of the Senator Kinsella .
I am prepared to to this question .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , we will over - before of the things .
all this that we have , this is a notice of motion of the Senator Fraser .
he not there has not of debate on a notice of motion or even of possible of point the Rules to this regard .
the question must be raised a time that we are before of the motion .
however , I me plierai to the will of the honourable senators .
if you want that I - the question now , I can the to , but I believe that he would more timely of expect that we arrivions to this section to the Paper .
the Senator Kinsella :
honourable senators , I have invoqué the Rules regarding the funds of a motion which the Senator Fraser has of notice .
a motion similar has was proposed by the Senator Oliver .
as this is to the Speaker that responsibility the job responsibility of interpret our Rules , I have asked of the clarification .
I have invoqué the Rules for ask of the clarification to the about of the Rules because that I believe that we in have occasionally need .
I have took the speak not not for debate the notice of motion , but well for point the Rules to the time timely , who is now .
the Senator Hays :
the case could also be heard to the time where the House will back of the motion of the Senator Oliver .
for my on , I believe that today today would a time well chosen , particularly that you prévoyez duty you Senator .
what that he in be , the Senator Cools is the human who has raised the question , and I believe that it should explain this who the concern .
the Senator Cools :
I to well .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I the as , I believe that we will too soon in besogne .
all this that we have before we , in the case of the Senator Fraser , this is a notice of motion .
other said , we not are not before of this case .
a notice of motion not cannot to the subject of a point to the Rules or of a situation debate .
be we said simply that her the Senator will propose someone something .
we able in debate when it the will exécutée .
if such is the good happy of the Senate , we can begin as now .
I me in either to you to this regard .
honourable senators , I as that to my notice , the way the more orderly of to the things would of deal of each question that their order of Presented .
if the debate on the motion of the Senator Oliver is adjourned to the behalf of her the Senator Cools , we in sacrifice then , for from then to the motion of the Senator Fraser .
however , I me in either to you .
the Senator Hays :
honourable senators , if the Speaker is prepared to deal of this about of way abstraite now , can - be could - we in speak today today , when we in viendrons to the motion of the Senator Oliver .
I like out that the motion of the Senator Oliver who we has well was introduced and who is adjourned to the behalf of the Senator Cools is , in substance , exactly the even that the notice of motion of the Senator Fraser .
would - he acceptable that we in discutions when the motion of the Senator Oliver will consideration ?
if this is acceptable , I suggestion that we tarred and .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the notice of motion and the motion are similar since they the support on the even principle .
they not are however not identiques since they deal of issues different .
the Senator Cools :
honourable senators , we could can - be deal of the question complex raised in the case of the motion of the Senator Oliver in proposing a amendment .
I me in either to the Senate .
if the senators are of notice that the be should attempt of solve these questions today today , I am of agreed .
however , I am of notice that that not is not really a point to the Rules , but rather a question of further .
if such is the case , he would can - be was better of in deal under the Order of a notice of motion of the government , this who somatotropin to the notice of motion of the Senator Fraser .
the Senator Hays :
honourable senators , we in discuterons when we will to the motion of the Senator Oliver .
can - be would - he better of in speak to this time for be well some that our comments be recevables .
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Estimates of the Estimates of 99 - 2000
Authorized given to the Committee of the Finance national of study the Estimates Supplementary ( A )
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) , pursuant to the notice of the 16 November 99 , move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Finance national be authorized to study , to of in to report , the Estimates expenditures in the Estimates Supplementary ( A ) for the year the ending the 31 March 2000 , to the exception of the credit 10a of the Parliament and of the credit 25a of the Council private .
( the motion is agreed . )
the Estimates of the Estimates of 99 - 2000
referred of the credit 25a of the Council private to the Committee Joint Standing of the languages official
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) , pursuant to the notice of the 16 November 99 , move :
that the Committee Joint Standing of the languages official be authorized to study the Estimates expenditures to the credit 25a of the Council private content in the Estimates Supplementary of the Estimates ( A ) for the year the ending the 31 March 2000 ; and
that a message be sent to the House of the Commons for the in inform .
( the motion is agreed . )
the Estimates of the Estimates of 99 - 2000
referred of the credit 10a of the Council private to the Committee Joint Standing of the Library of the Parliament
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) , pursuant to the notice of the 16 November 99 , move :
that the Committee Joint Standing of the Library of the Parliament be authorized to study the Estimates expenditures to the credit 10a of the Parliament content in the Estimates Supplementary of the Estimates ( A ) for the year the ending the 31 March 2000 ; and
that a message be sent to the House of the Commons for the in inform .
( the motion is agreed . )
the Code criminal Position Act on the system Correctional and the implementation in freedom under condition
bill of bill Amend - Second Reading - Adjourned of the debate
- honourable senators , I rise the speak for propose that the bill of bill C - 247 be read a second time and for start the debate on this bill of bill .
, the hour current , the authors of molester many not can be burdened to of the disappointment additional , not would - this that of a day or of a hour for the second , the third or even the eleventh murder their that they caregiver .
the bill of bill C - 247 served in question the concept that which the authors of molester many should be eligible to a should Earl after have purgé of 10 to 25 years of their only of - to perpétuité , what that be the number of molester that they have made .
the bill of bill of Albina Guarnieri break this guarantee and will to the judges the possible of impose of the disappointment proportionnelles to the crimes made .
they will then the flexibility necessary for add a day or a year or until to 25 years of more to the only on .
the only murderers who will opposite to this possible will those burdened for of the molester many .
the bill of bill C - 247 was the C - Naturalization to the over of the last session .
the Senate has received the bill of bill C - Naturalization the 8 June 99 during the the days of the session .
in make , the bill of bill C - Naturalization has expired to the Paper .
Le19 October , to the House of the Commons , Albina Guarnieri has presented the bill of bill C - 247 who was in fact the former bill of bill C - Naturalization .
the bill of bill C - 247 has was read in first Reading to the Senate the 2 November .
honourable senators , for four years the Commons have was saisies of this bill of bill under four clauses different , be the C - 274 , the C - 321 in 1996 , the C - Naturalization in 1997 and maintenantle C - 247 .
that is well the importance of the opinion of the House of the Commons for the cabinet and the Minister responsible .
the bill of bill C - 247 is a bill of bill of initiative Parliamentary prepared , defended and sponsored to the House of the Commons by Albina Guarnieri , the MP Liberal of located - East , close of Toronto .
this bill of bill does to a question social important and burning , the condition of the system of justice criminal to the Canada .
Albina Guarnieri me has asked of sponsor the bill of bill here and of the defend to the Senate .
I the wish in high believe .
despite of many obstacles ' deliberately in across of his road , it has fact current this bill of bill .
all the Canadians him must many .
I the support in his efforts , particularly in the task difficult who is to encaisser the minuses brutaux who are brought to the within of the own caucus , a field of the relations human which be should seriously reflect .
honourable senators , the 18 August 1997 , to Surrey , in British - British , I have attended in company of Albina Guarnieri to the hearing , in under of the section 745 , of the nation Clifford Olson .
no arrangement not had was took by the prosecutor General or the court for to to of the members of follow this hearing .
the members Liberal to the House of the Commons , Dan McTeague and Paul Steckle were also attendance , of even that John Nunziata , a former member Liberal today today independent , and several members of the Party Reform .
Christie Blatchford has very well described this hearing .
in the section entitled : " Clifford Olson' s macabre circus' " , which the 19 August 1997 in the Toronto Sun , it said :
the Senator Liberal Anne Cools was so choquée that it was almost incohérente , saying between his you that the " cirque macabre " which be was in are of attend to the court was so would that it was absolutely to someone something for the back , other it not could not the with more long .
honourable senators , the 1 December 1998 , in the testimony before the Committee Standing of the justice and of the rights of the human of the House of the Commons to about of the bill of bill C - Naturalization , today today the C - 247 , Albina Guarnieri has described the hearing in under of the section 745 , Pritchard by the Justice Richard Low , of the Court Supreme of the British - British , in as a view of the nation Olson .
it has said :
for I , the time the more alarmant in the proceedings Olson the is product when Olson has read to high Senators a letter of the lawyer him conseillant of by of a only the all the molester that he had made .
and , editing the lawyer , Olson could fully benefit of the system of disappointment competitors .
Olson has said that the lawyer him had fully of fully benefit of the system of disappointment competitors .
Albina Guarnieri on :
Olson has nargué the court in their saying : " how not can nothing to .
they not can that me give a only concurrente " .
simply for you give a small idea of the other advice any of the member esteemed of the bar representative Olson , Olson has quoted a letter of the lawyer who said :
prepare a plan who boss of first to to in so that you are completely sufficient of the at of the on of policiers boy - scouts too zélés .
the tax of disappointment competitors is avantageuse for the authors nasty of molester many to the Prime and to the second degree .
Albina Guarnieri we has invited outright to to this catch question of policy public , the determination of the only to the regard of criminals , and more particularly of the authors cruel , obstinés , incorrigibles and nasty of molester many to the Prime and to the second degree .
he the is of the determination of the only for of the actions really bad .
the " difficulty " is a word rarely used because that the employment require a definition of the " well " and of the source of the " well " .
of more , these words , " well " and " difficulty " , do a debate moral , and a debate on the concept of a be transcendant , a déité , God as source of all this who is well .
on the place public of our days , the development of the policy public and the debate on these questions are internationalist of convictions diplomacy , this who give this that of such be called the " place public any nue " .
many of leaders political current have strove of from the policy of the moral and of from the for public of the convictions personal , in saying the to to the behalf of the neutral moral .
the debate public and policy to the Parliament , on the place public , in the absence of principles and of convictions diplomacy , is a debate rhetoric and missed .
the debate on the place public and to the Parliament require absolutely that the meeting do speak their convictions diplomacy and éthiques in the debate , and this debate must include of the justifications diplomacy .
honourable senators , these the time , many have refused of admit the existence of the méchanceté human and that it has little of explanation and of théories .
the very few explanation of the méchanceté who have was completed are of order harshly .
however , the explanation théologiques are écartées of our days to the behalf of the neutral moral .
however , those who working in the services of detention , in the services of police , in the sector of the any and of the right pénal , and in the services social - of even that in policy and in relations political - know that the méchanceté human there .
it there really .
they know also that the méchanceté human will of the difficulty to anyone the approach too of it .
the difficulty has for nature and over of to it to the well , of him so and of the unnoticed .
the Hope for Healing Russel Evil .
, about of the difficulty , who effraie with reason the most of the people , the Dr Peck wrote to the page 42 :
the fact that we not have not of definition generally accepted of the difficulty is of the enormous mystery of the about .
I believe however that exhausted , we have all a some understanding of his nature .
this savant psychiatrist we informed that he not there not of definition generally accepted of the difficulty , and we about of the enormous mystery of the méchanceté human and the understanding deficit that we in have .
the Dr. Peck wrote still , to the page 46 :
that he suffice of admit that , well that we not horses not still of a bloc of knowledge scientific on the difficulty that he vaille the only of honour of the term " psychologie " , the experts of the behaviour have looked of the basis who will possible the development of a such psychologie .
the maltreatment of the inconscient by Freud and the concept of the Shadows in addressed are all two fundamental .
including our deficiencies in the knowledge of the difficulty , he has seconded the efforts of the Dr. Eric Fromm for the study .
the Dr. Peck has added , to the page 47 :
however , that my own experience , the people human who the livrent to the difficulty are very many and all usually very ordinary to the be of a observer not caring .
the honourable senators the recall that good number of commentators had out that Paul Bernardo and his woman , Karla Homolka , vigorously very normal and well ordinary .
honourable senators , the Clifford Olson and Karla Homolka not are not patients , or mentalement or physiquement .
they are all simply nasty .
all common that he must be méchant for those the life of blood - cold , intentionnellement , deliberately , and of way another .
he must be méchant for assassiner crudely , deliberately and of blood - cold several people human , am of the children vulnerable and without Defence , to of satisfy of the impulsions them débridées , of the perversions them and of obtain a gratification sexual .
a such difficulty stream to the treatment or to the remedies .
in addition , the concept current of illness accessibility not uniting not to explain the difficulty and to the Outbreak , because these Offenders not are not patients .
the word " illness " means difficulty to the comfortable .
far of the to difficulty to the comfortable , their behaviour not the gêne no .
the nation Olson is all to fact to the comfortable with his condition .
he sign his letters " Clifford Robert Olson , TUEUR EN SÉRIE of 11 children " .
I have received a of his letters that he had signed of this way .
the 23 April 1996 , to the Senate , I have raised the question of privilege , to the words of the paragraph 43 ( 1 ) of the Rules , to about of this letter .
the Speaker of the Senate has felt that he not there had not it to the privilege to first view .
the nation Olson not is not patient , he is méchant .
he appear that the ministers and their services respective not see not of generates to this that the Parliament be excluded of the process of development of the policy Current to this question crucial .
that me has which of as more clear when the review of my two bills of bill , regarding the détenueKarla Homolka and the agreements questionable on the leaders of charge , has was interrompu sommairement and that the were have was retirés of the Paper .
in 1997 , I have an this initiative in the bill of bill S - 16 , Act regarding a some Karla Homolka , and that still , the Speaker in has ordered the withdrawal .
in the second case , in 1996 , to the about of the bill of bill S - 3 , Act amend the Code criminal ( agreed on the Leader of charge ) , the study of my bill of bill has was inquire without that the Committee has had enough of time , to my notice , for the in imprégner , without that a debate has was given , and without that has was heard the less witness .
the only witnesses received by the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional for the bill of bill S - 3 , in other of my own human , have was the representatives of the Department of the Justice , Mr. Yvan Roy and quotes Bobiasz , lawyer deep to the 110 of the policy and of the amendment of the right in s criminal .
these witnesses have essentially asked to the Committee of reject the initiative .
my opposed not have wanted or of a debate or of a review .
they have could amend the bill of bill or even reject my legislation Parliamentary after a review thorough and a debate vigour .
honourable senators , during of the hearing demandée by Olson in under of the section 745 and who has had place to Surrey , in British - British , I have learned that this mêmeM. Yvan Roy , of the Department of the Justice , was on place , to the clause of the media .
Christie Blatchford , that I have already citée , has noticed the presence of these officials to Surrey .
it in about in these words :
... the officials of the Justice were that for give of the information on this section controversial .
it with these officials as the Irène Arsenault , manager , on with the media , Division of the Affairs public of the Department of the Justice ; Fraser Simons , steering regional of the Board of the libérations reversal , region of Abbotsford ; and , for an the term used by Blatchford , " the cerveau " , Yvan Roy .
be the will that the people who have been the pleas of Homolka were George Dr. , under - prosecutor General of the Ontario , and the under - prosecutor Deputy , Michael Code .
I rise note that , then that the Senate was before of my bills of bill to the about of Homolka , this mêmeGeorge Dr. is became under - Minister of the Justice to Ottawa , of the time where Allan Rock in was the Minister , lone of this fact the boss Mr. Roy , " the cerveau " .
honourable senators , to the Canada , be not to not know this that think the parliamentarians of the Administration of the justice criminal , in particular in this who with the determination of the only and the earn .
the bill of bill C - 247 is the expression of a opinion Parliamentary not deal who has was agreed to the House of the Commons by a vote majority , even if the Minister of the Justice not was not of agreed .
of any obviously , the opinion of the Minister not was not the of the majority of the members .
the observers looking our business for know if the opinion of the Minister of the Justice prévaudra now to the Senate .
Albina Guarnieri has raised a question important in right pénal , be the of the determination of the only and of the earn in the case of murderers dangerous .
his real question relates on the value , the value real , of the life of a be human by report to the sentence on to , who has from a or several lives .
appearing the 1 December 1998 before the Committee Standing of the justice and of the rights of the human of the House of the common , Albina Guarnieri has said this who following :
the Canadians not have never voted for the disappointment competitors .
be not their has never asked if their identity , their identity Canadian , was service of a system of determination of the only more laxiste , between other to the regard of the violeurs and of the murderers .
the disappointment competitors will to the with of the concept fundamental of justice .
the fact is that the Canadians feel that each murder or abuse sexual , each victim , must be comptabilisé in the calculating of the only .
in communiquant to the Committee the results of a poll that it had it - even ordered , and who had was led by the sondeur POLLARA of the Party Liberal , it has added :
this is why 90 per of the Canadians are supporters of amend the bill for the ensure that the people our guilty of several molester or abuse them purgent of the disappointment consecutive for each offence .
this is this that has indicated a poll national made by POLLARA the months last .
this poll has also for of see that to only 8 per of the Canadians are supportive to the quo quo .
be with clear our condition Parliamentary and policy when of the members representative the public must have use to the surveys rather that to a debate one for convince the with political of the opinion public .
Albina Guarnieri paid and the explanation of the bill of bill :
if , by the through of the tax of disappointment competitors , be not with no that of the other victims who looking the first victim of a violeur or of a meurtrier , this principle is bafoué .
the subject of my bill of bill is of such that each offence to the bill has a make .
of the periods consecutive of not - Eligibility to the should Earl in the case of molester many to the Prime and to the second degree and a only consécutive for each act of abuse sexual favoriseraient a justice proportional who 1 more to the system fair and balanced that are the Canadians .
honourable senators , the bill of bill C - 247 not fact that add a part legal of more to this that the government has already recorded to the section 745 of the Code criminal , even such that amended in 1996 by the bill of bill C - 45 , Act amend the Code criminal ( review judicial of the inadmissibilité to the should Earl ) .
as we the know , the - to perpétuité is the only minimum for the molester to the Prime and to the second degree .
this is the compromise policy that be has fact in 1976 for obtain the abolition of the only capital .
this only minimum was therefore agreed and parent of a period fixed of - before that the criminal has the right of ask a should Earl .
in the case of a murder to the Prime degree , the date of Eligibility to the should Earl survenait after 25 years give of - and , in the case of a murder to the second degree , after a period of - of 10 years .
honourable senators , he so frequently in the public that the be confonde the only of - to perpétuité for murder to the Prime degree and the 25 years who are indeed purgées before that the offender not be eligible to the should Earl .
the only of - to perpétuité duration until to the end of the life of the offender , as the words the say .
the office of the mandate is the of the life of the offender .
the date of expire of the mandate is the of the Late of the nation .
the Service Correctional of the Canada about of " date of expire of the mandate " .
the only duration any the life .
he from a great confusion to this about .
well of the people think that the - to life has a office of 25 years .
the regime of should Earl is a form of clémence Royal who allows to the nation of continue to purger his only in the community , outside of the walls of a other .
a other form of clémence Royal is the hubbing of the only of death in only of - to perpétuité .
this is this who has was provided in the bill for give on to the compromise policy of 1976 to to abolish the only capital .
however , this compromise is now attack by the evolution of the process of determination of the only , who compromet the justice it - even .
in 1996 , the bill of bill C - 45 presented by the government modifiait the section 745 for prevent the authors of molester many of ask a review judicial of their date of Eligibility to the should Earl .
in by that , the government has agreed a great part of the reaching of Albina Guarnieri , annoying that the authors of molester many were purger a only more long before of be eligible to the should Earl .
honourable senators , I have already ' in doubt the existence even of the section 745 and proposed that he be failing to because of his are evident in the bill of bill S - 6 , Act amend the Code criminal ( deadline pre to the should Earl ) , that I have presented in 1996 .
, the about of the bill of bill C - 45 , I have should that this was a amendment to a clause already token .
during the debate of the 12 December 1996 , I have said this :
honourable senators , in 1976 , the section 745 of the Code criminal has " to the courts of the powers inhabituels their can of amend the decisions of courts senior - of the powers who are normally although to the over of call , to the authorities net of the power of clémence or to the Governor General .
he has " to the courts of the powers inhabituels their can of amend the disappointment déterminées by the courts law of to of the decisions .
this is someone something who is should to the over of call and to the authorities net of the power of clémence .
the section 745 has had the effect very came of give to the courts the power of to the clémence .
this power is of full right to some agencies precise .
the bill of bill C - 45 treated these powers to the judges in Leader , this who fall the powers of the Parliament of give on to the wish of the public .
by against , the powers of the judges in Leader will increased .
as we the know , that the Constitution , these powers not have not was issue to the judges in Leader or to the courts because that this are of the powers political .
this are of the powers Act by the representatives of the society .
he not is not that the power of clémence of Majesty Majesty be has by the courts or the judges ; he must the be by the executive .
he the is that of a power executive .
honourable senators , the bill of bill of Albina Guarnieri on the disappointment consecutive based on the manipulation érigés by the government to the section 745 who allows the judges to determine the office of the time of it .
in the case of the authors of molester many who are patently malins , the bill of bill C - 247 specific that , when the contrevenant is recognized found of other molester , the judges can extend the period for which the contrevenant is for to the should Earl in him ordonnant of purger a time of it Supplementary who not can however not overtake 25 years .
other said , the time of it not can overtake 50 years .
the section 745 is a solution policy agreed in 1976 for respect a compromise reached in 1976 .
we have need of new solutions and the absence of new solutions in the case of psychopathies virulentes not will that undermine the confidence of the public in the system and that strengthen the claims of the Canadians who wish the restoration of the only of death .
the bill of bill C - 247 is a compromise of the year 2000 , who result of the practices offered , of the are of the section 745 and of the disappointment generally cut to the Offenders patently malins .
honourable senators , in the case of psychopathies and of psychopathologies Mudslide , the reality , this is that the psychopathes and the sociopathes are more sournois , more rusés and more ingénieux that the authorities .
the held Olson and Homolka we in are of the examples frappants .
the fact that the prisonnière Homolka can continue the government before the courts example to said my about .
honourable senators , he is government of put to the review of the Parliament our system of justice criminal , his mechanisms of any , the transactions in s criminal , the guideline of determination of the only and of should Earl .
during of the hearing that the nation Olson has demandée in under of the section 745 , I have was witness of this broader overhauled that is our system of justice .
the Justice who chaired the hearing chaired a hearing policy .
this hearing was is and well policy , it not had not a uniqueness legal .
the Justice , the jury and all the world this in this Room the knew .
we meetings our or to the independence of the judges and of the power judicial in hiring the judges of this manner .
I am some that the majority of the Canadians could imagine without eyebrows the nation Olson éviscéré , écartelé , ' to the finger and décapité , because the crimes that he has made were and are still extremely répugnants for the people human that we are , but we not believe not to the only capital .
is why we we this debate today today .
the nation Olson has cost to our country of the billion of $ with his many fantaisies judicial , his from in justice and his prétendues are legal , there including the hearing that he has demandée in under of the section 745 .
all this that his notoriété has had of good , this is that it has for of the keep incarcéré .
I then you say that human not the libérera .
Karla Homolka is the equivalent the more natural .
honourable senators , I have fact part of the Board national of the libérations reversal .
I have examined well of the issues , of the reports of autopsie , of the reports of police , of the judgments and of the statements of Justice to the time of the determination of the only .
I have asked of many held and authorized or suspended well of the libérations reversal .
I have learned that he is very rare of find in the Offenders a pulsion meurtrière who is parent of are prédateurs and who the country by their for for the compliance , but that this is however more fréquent that be the think or that be to well the admit .
the ability of these prédateurs of choose their victims in exploitant their vulnérabilité is diabolique .
be about little in the two Houses of the Parliament of the case of paraphilie and of psychopathy , of the psychopathes , of the sociopathes and of the unrest of behaviour .
he must discuss of the unrest of pulsions Mudslide érotiques of the Homolka and of the Olson and of their consequences on the system of justice .
the most of between we not can understand their lack of compassion human , their deploy orchestrées , their désirs sexual déséquilibrés , their abuse , their narcissisme absolute and their profligate dépravées .
he must that we considering their ability of manipulate with success the people and the systems , including the systems democratic , and their ability to one on the incrédulité and the naive of the people .
Three Essays be the Theory of Sexuality and ideological Works , volume 7 , the Dr. Sigmund Freud has wrote on the unrest from to the pulsions them .
, the page 111 of the edition of 1979 of the home Penguin , he ask this :
the absence of the roadblocks of the pitié the Adieu of the risk that the link between the are cruel and the are érogènes and established in the boyhood the which impossible to Koreas to the age - .
we about here of déviants sexual evil .
he the is of punish of the crimes attracted by of the pulsions érogènes occupation , incorrigibles and Mudslide .
honourable senators , the year of the power sovereign in the earn of a crime is a of the aspects essential of the Administration of the justice .
be can read this to the page 48 :
the right of punish is therefore a aspect of the right of the sovereign of to the War to his as ; the right of punish is of the " right absolute of life and of death that the right Roman Order merum imperium , right in under which the reportedly there to this that his bill be respected in ordonnant that the crimes be her ...
but the earn is also a way of obtain justice to the plan as staff that public , since the force physico - policy of the sovereign is its in a sense in the bill ... "
I say well " obtain justice " , honourable senators .
in our system , be about of prerogative Royal in justice .
the presence of the Queen in the bill , that which a expression as the Queen against Homolka , proves clear the right of each citizen of obtain that the Queen , the source of the justice , their it justice .
it proves the right of obtain justice of the accusateur , be the Queen , and of the victims , in this case - this the small heckling Mahaffy and Kristen French , who not were that of the children .
the earn of the crimes and the disappointment cut sending on the principles that are the dissuasive , the neutralisation , the psychiatric and the earn .
the earn , to the difference of the vengeance , is the make fair of the it by the offender to the peace of the Queen and to the issues of the Queen , be , in the case who we ' , all the children .
the earn can always be tempéré by the clémence of the Queen .
the Justice MacKeigan , of the Court of call of the Nova - Nova , its a pleas of the more solid in favour of the tax of disappointment consecutive .
, the page 443 of the judgment of 1975 in the case R . . Muise , he wrote :
this principle , which I participates in despite of the argument very fair of the lawyer of Muise , result of my own conviction who to that the bill , in commission to the Justice the power of condemn a human appropriately found of a offence to a only of - , even in the kidnapping to the to , not should not be been as the the obligation made to the Justice of to a only of - for a second offence concomitante with the only on by him or a other Justice for a other offence .
in infligeant a only refer concurrente to a offender , be not the punit not of the all because that he not is not given of purger a only day of - ; none not can from the even day in other two time , not more that he not can be flat two time .
in infligeant a only concurrente , a Justice not fulfilling therefore not the duty , to least of power find , in the Code or the right pénal in General , the power of the to .
I please all the honourable senators of to to the bill of bill C - 247 any the attention deal .
I to that the be understands well that he is here question of trained in series evil .
he not the is not of poor young men who , under the the of a accrochage with their parents who the highlights in allow , the for CANBAT to a flight to with they .
he not is not here question of the offender with by .
this are of the people who decision very froidement of killing someone a and who the are of full and with préméditation and Trapping .
he is clearly time that the system and that the Senate recognize that the psychopathy there .
the hon. Sheila Finestone :
honourable senators , I to for a question to the about of this Presented indications with be and regarding a bill of bill very contentious and difficult .
he not appropriate not that I say in this context that the Senator Cools would could act in solo , it would could the to , but I wish indeed to say that this is a question very difficult .
the Senator Cools is a human who knows very well this field .
the Senator Cools :
I thank the hon. Senator of his question .
this is the dilemma that with the section 745 of the Code criminal of the Canada .
as that I far , the majority of the senators are of the abolitionnistes convinced who not wish absolutely not that the be réinstaure a day the only capital .
, the time of the Adopted of the section 745 , he not had not was provided that each meurtrier recognized found of murder to the Prime degree the prévaudrait of this clause .
in reality , be in is come to point this clause of way very routinière , and this is that that ahead the problem .
the situation to this about is very clear .
in the Bill bill C - 45 , the government and Rock , the Minister of the Justice of the time , have made of the changes , section 745 in view of where some limits .
the Bill bill C - 247 refers that all these changes have was inadequate and that of other measures the do .
I know that many of senators want speak in the debate on the bill of bill .
in my conclusion to the debate of second Reading , I have the intention of to the historic of the sanctions and of the libérations reversal .
I will to the Senate a statement on the evolution of the jurisprudence to the over des20 past years and I initiate how it has led to the situation current in the determination of the only .
the hon. Senator Finestone has struck in full in the in .
the about require that the be the in ' .
I hope that some questions surgiront to the over of the debate .
why the judges not do - they not of the disappointment consecutive , as they the can ?
the Senator Finestone :
this is a case very came .
the Senator Cools :
I say that all the molester are inhabituels .
if the argument of the exception s , we not have not need of laws against the murder because that the molester are inhabituels .
the they not the were not , the kind human not thing more .
this is very true .
I have a amount impressive of documents on this such of individuals .
this who not is not if came in the murderers , this are the chronic .
the récidive not is not unusual among this category of individuals that we lifelong the murderers many .
some people , there including Albina Guarnieri , believe that he is necessary of codifier the way way .
in short , ces20 past years , the jurisprudence has ground in a sense who fact that , today today , the judges not are not inspired to impose of the disappointment consecutive .
if be could to to the time of 1980 and replicating the proceedings Mr. Olson , can - be his sentence would - it completely different of his condemnation to 11 disappointment competitors of - to life and the jurisprudence would all other .
we not must not forget that a be human not has that a only life to live .
this is all to fact true .
by example , to the States - United , the courts do of the disappointment of 200 or 300 years .
that not the fact not to the Canada .
in the history of the only capital , be is of the criminals conducted several time .
and , a human could be condamnée to be décapitée for a crime , this who was generally the fate should to the aristocrates .
it could be condamnée to die écartelée , mutilée or brûlée in of the oil .
he there had of many ways of killing several time the even human .
, the end of the years 1790 , Small J . I. Guillotin has invented the guillotine , also barbare that that can we may of our days , that was considered to the time as a progress fantastique as way of punish the criminals .
be occupation to the time that all the people human not had that a life to losing and that they not should die that a only time .
left Guillotin has presented his reform , he has said that a be human should die only a time and that his death was be quick .
I hope have helped someone little my hon. colleague .
the hon. Pierre Claude Nolin :
in the speech , her the Senator Cools has it said Mr. Olson not will never free ?
the Senator Cools :
yes , I have said someone something of the such .
the Senator Nolin :
if this man will remain in other for the rest of his life , could - it we explain why the rule of the right will to to this individual of remain in other for the by of his life ?
the Senator Cools :
this not is not a question of rule of the right .
Mr. . Olson has was court to the - to perpétuité and the courts can be the reopened after 15 years of the Eligibility to a should Earl .
when I have said Mr. Olson not would never free , I not would can - be not should use the word " never " .
I would should say that to this at - this , all the system and all the people working in the system Mr. Olson know very well the horror Mr. Olson based to any the public .
I say to the honourable senators that this sense public very very is a factor contraignant .
that is wished clear this day - that to the hearing who has had place to Surrey , in British - British .
I am here for say to the honourable senators , and to the Senator Nolin in particular , that if the public cessait a moment of follow the matter Olson , he the could well that this man nervous , of a way or of a other , to obtain his implementation in freedom .
of the held which I have heard say that they tueraient a time true of other , I in have seen a great number .
when I say that I the have heard say these things , I to say that he was fact mention in the reports of their intention of killing to their exit of other .
I say to the hon. Senator that , the he the is a day opposite to opposite with some of these individuals , as that me is came in the system carcéral , he will have afraid .
when we considering the bill of bill C - 45 , we had a list of held their of the an of the section 745 of the Code criminal , which some that I had substandard I - even when I at to the Board national of the libérations reversal .
in " the list , I me am reminded in particular of the behalf of a nation who had said to who wanted the hear that he off and tuerait to new .
the Senator Nolin :
be age .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , the period of time scheduled for the speech and the questions is completed .
of agreed .
the Senator Nolin :
honourable senators , not we méprenons not .
if the Board of the libérations reversal has the power of take a decision , this is because that the bill him authority this power .
when I about of the rule of the right , this is exactly of that that I about .
I am appalled of hear that the Senator Cools , a former member of the Board , had the right of take a such decision in as that Commissioner .
it we said now that it was outset , to the time , that some of the individuals who appeared before it were of future criminals , but that it not has nothing fact .
the Senator Cools :
we have took of the measures .
the Senator Nolin :
the find - they still in other ?
the Senator Cools :
in this case particular , I have dropped the regime of freedom watch which he bénéficiait .
he is business in other .
I about of many years more later .
the Senator Nolin :
you prouvez this that I soutiens .
the bill , to the Canada , give all the power to the commission and to the different ministers of the Justice of the provinces .
I not think not that the be can réhabiliter a such individual .
this that I say , this is that the laws current can with these problems for little that they be colleague properly , not is - this not ?
the Senator Cools :
the Senator Nolin :
if that not enough not , her the Senator think it that two or three disappointment consecutive are a solution ?
the Senator Cools :
this that I say to the Senator , and he me includes without doubt very well , this is that four principles must govern the determination of the only , and not any what Justice or jury must to that of these four principles the each after the other .
the a of these principles is the neutralisation , this is - to - say that he must prevent the offender of make a other crime .
this that I say to the Senator - well that he répugne to the admit , but I will to of my better for the persuade , but he must admit that this will difficult - this is that he there has someone something to correct .
honourable senators , I have under the be a section of newspaper who me has was has he there has few days .
he there is question of a nation called Adrian Kinkead , which I not had never heard speak .
I not know not all the details and I not am not very well trusts , because I not have not took knowledge of the because .
I is my information of this only section .
in this case - this , the prosecutor of the Department public has asked to the Justice of aside the judgment until to the Adopted of this bill of bill .
that he the whether of this case - this or of a other , I say to the Senator Nolin that , in our evolution policy , we in are people to a at where the Parliament must to a some attention to these questions .
the Senator Nolin :
the Senator we ask of we deal on a change of principle to the second Reading .
the Senator Cools :
he not there has not of change of principle .
the Senator Nolin :
this is this that the Senator ask .
explain - you because until here , you not the have not fact .
the Senator Cools :
he not there has not of change .
the Senator Nolin :
in the last response that her the Senator has made , it has fact as to the four principles .
I think that he would good of to know or of remind to to the honourable senators that he there has only few decades , we fouettions still the violeurs to the Canada .
the Senator Cools :
certainly , we had the as of the Canada .
the Senator Nolin :
why have - we changed this used ?
, about , we not lifelong more these people - that of the " violeurs " .
the Senator Finestone :
how the " - you now ?
the Senator Nolin :
I believe that be the Order of the " perpetrators sexual " .
we have ground .
the only not the reduced not only to the punish .
the Senator Cools :
this is a bad example , but it will .
the Senator Nolin :
let - I conclusion of for my question , I you please .
I have left the hon. Senator conclusion the speech .
today today , he not the is more only of punish .
the determination of the only the based on some principles and her the Senator must explain to this House , before that we not we prononcions to the step of the second Reading , what principle it to see change , why it to that he be changed , and in what this change affectera he the other principles .
if it so to me convince , I be happy of the support .
I not believe not that the Senator the be really explained until here , of the least of after this that I have heard .
can - be should - we refer the bill of bill to a Committee before of we deal to the step of the second Reading , because he there has that not difficulty of principles in at .
the hon. Senator has fact out that he there had consensus for not not restore the only of death .
why ?
he must well there have of the reasons .
the Senator Cools :
I not doubt not of the reasons of the Senator .
I have said that I would loved the see the interest all as to the bill of bill C - 45 , by example .
recognize , the bill of bill C - 247 based in particular - and the Committee is guest to hear of the witnesses as the not Manfredi and Knopff - on the four principles of the determination of the only .
the legislation legislative parliament to apply of way more retooled the principle of the proportionnalité , , who to that the only be proportional to the offence commise .
I have a little of difficulty to understand how the hon. Senator can argue that the bill of bill not is not consistent to the principles of the determination of the only and I him ask why .
this bill of bill has already was adopted to the House of the Commons and , in the framework of the Adopted , I poured that of many people the have examined .
this bill of bill of initiative Parliamentary not is not new .
that fact four years that he is examined and examined by the House of the Commons .
I specific to the hon. Senator that the bill of bill respect and confirms the principle of the dissuasive , the principle of the psychiatric , the principle of the neutralisation and the principle of the proportionnalité .
this are that the four principles of the determination of the only .
the bill of bill is that consistent to these principles .
of more , on the plans policy and legal , he based on the manipulation created by the government .
this is the government who has created the section 745 who allows to the judges , this who not the was never seen , of establish the time of it .
this is on this section that the based the bill of bill .
, - this is consistent not only to the principles of the determination of the only , but also to the political who have was adopted by the government these past years and who taking the form of legislation - legislation as the Bill bill C - 45 , his version current and that the inclusion of the new section 745 to the Code criminal .
the Senator Nolin :
I am course that in the study of this question , the hon. Senator knows that the a of the principles in at is the Charter of the rights and freedoms .
the Senator Cools :
that he me it confidence .
I have examined the Charter .
the Senator Nolin :
for this the things to the clear , in the case of a contrevenant who the with impose two disappointment , is - this that the - to life correspondrait to a only minimum of 50 years ?
the Senator Cools :
this not is not of the all this that move the legislation .
can - be the Senator not includes he not the bill of bill .
the Senator Nolin :
what would the minimum of a only of - to life ?
the Senator Cools :
the minimum rest the even for the time in the bill .
the Assent scheduled by the bill is resuming in this bill of bill .
the Senator not the has can - be not including , but then - I hope the in persuade ?
the bill of bill allows to the Justice , in the case of the by of disappointment many for murder , of repudiate of a day or of a year additional the date of Eligibility to the should Earl .
and , if a human is judged , inculpée and condamnée to of the disappointment many for murder to the Prime or to the second degree , the Justice can decide of a only of 10 years by example for the Prime murder then add two or three years of - before that the human can be eligible to the freedom Earl .
the hon. Senator seems believe that the bill of bill the summer of add 25 years to the only to purger .
not .
the bill of bill limit simply the margin of room of the magistrat .
by therefore , in under of this bill of bill , the Justice can add to the sentence a year , or two , or three , or more , until to competition of a appreciates of 25 years .
I hope that the Senator includes to this .
the Senator Nolin :
the hon. Senator must give a explanation clear to the honourable senators .
the he is poses that a individual has killed three people to of the opportunities separate and in of the contexts different , three disappointment of - to perpétuité him will cut .
he not is not question here of a year , of two years and of three years .
the Senator Cools :
yes , this is this which he is question .
the Senator Nolin :
her the Senator would - it the please of me explain that ?
the Senator Cools :
I am pleased of provide a explanation to the hon. Senator .
in of other words , as I the have said before , Albina Guarnieri the is seconded on the touchstone legislative created by the section 745 , who allows the Justice to repudiate the date of Eligibility to the should Earl .
this is the regime present .
the bill of bill will to the Justice , in the framework of a other only , of add two years or five years to the period of inadmissibilité to the should Earl .
this aspect of the bill of bill is very astucieux because he the based exactly of the reaching who has led to the development of the section 745 and to the amendments to the section 745 in the bill of bill C - 45 .
the reaching is exactly the even .
the Senator Nolin :
what would the appreciates ?
the Senator Cools :
the bill of bill specific however that the power Supplementary who is " to the Justice of repudiate the date of inadmissibilité to the should Earl is deduct to 25 years additional .
this is the limit .
the Senator Nolin :
this is 25 years additional .
the Senator Cools :
this not is not 25 years additional .
this is a total Supplementary of 25 years .
the Senator Nolin :
this is this that you precise of say .
the Senator Cools :
I not have not said that .
in of other words , the only of - to perpétuité remains .
the nation purge always a only of - to perpétuité .
by therefore , the powers will who have was our to the Justice to the section 745 are the same that those that move the bill of bill C - 247 , except that he the is of a version extended by report to the version of the section 745 .
the hon. ë A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , before of adjourn the debate to the behalf of the a of my colleagues , I like to on the speech very interesting and very important that the Senator Cools has by this after - afternoon and who raises several questions .
I must by that his or of Sigmund Freud expliquant this that is a bothers sociopathique of the president has - my attention .
I am course that the adherents of the psychanalyse , who has was created by Sigmund Freud , the are their own idea of the reasons who follows why the people the an as they the are , particularly in the public fall by this legislation legislative .
he would however négligent of our on of not not out that he there of many other théories on the president .
I think , by example , that the school of psychologie of Leduc Adler its a image many more positive of the president human , and that even the school of psychanalyse of Carl Gustav addressed its a image many least black of the president human , there including in the case of those who could be diagnostiqués as with of unrest sociopathiques of the president .
he there has also a school of psychologie , donor and social , who consider that the president human is malléable and is of be corrigée and développée on the plan social .
this that I to add to this debate , this is that , that the psychologists owned to various other schools , the people human can be réadaptés and change election of behaviour .
I not like not that be rest on a Appendix pessimiste , who just , I think , of the theory échafaudée by Sigmund Freud .
that said , honourable senators , I move the adjournment of the debate to the behalf of the Senator Di Nino .
( on the motion of the Senator Kinsella , to the behalf of the Senator Di Nino , the debate is adjourned . )
the Committee of selection
Report of the third report - Withdrawn of the section
the order of the day Order :
Report of the third report of the Committee of selection ( as of Speaker to as " ) , presented to the Senate 2 November 99 . - ( - hon. Senator MLA ) .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
the Hon. the Speaker :
is - this of agreed , honourable senators , to know that this section be from of the order of the day ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the section is from . )
Affairs legal and Constitutional
motion Requesting the Authorized of use the documents and evidence collected during of the review of the bill of bill precedent for the study of the bill of bill present - Continued of the debate
the order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Oliver , seconded by the hon. Senator Di Nino :
that the documents received and the evidence heard by the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional to the over of the study of the Bill bill S - 17 , Act amend the Code criminal relatively to the harassment criminal and to of other issues other , during of the first session of the 30 - sixth Parliament , be removed to the Committee , when he will was set , for the its study of the bill of bill S - 6 . - (
the hon. Senator Cools ) .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , the point in question with the use to the Rules of the Senator Kinsella to the about of the wording of this motion .
I me am already by that - with .
the Senator Kinsella want can - be add someone something .
he the is of a ask of confusion on the to - about of this motion , including the referred of the documents already received and of the evidence already heard by the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional .
I recognize now the speak to the Senator Cools .
the hon. Anne C . Cools :
honourable senators , as I have was stand during any the hour who just of the allowed , I like , if this is possible , that this case be have to tomorrow .
the hon. ë A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , we not we opposerions not to the adjournment of the motion of the Senator Oliver .
however , that we would if be could with the point to the Rules that I have fact because that we are now before of a motion introduced by the senators of this side - this and of a notice of motion presented by the senators of in opposite .
I believe understand that the Senator Cools has many worked to other something this after - afternoon and that His Hon. must the Senator more later .
however , he the can that to of other opportunities , the senators " that of the evidence precedents be removed to a Committee .
since he there has two schools of s on the question , I believe that we should with that today today , before that His Hon. not leaving the Senate .
, the page 90 of the é of the Senate of the 3 November 99 , the Senator Oliver attention the existence of precedents .
he unless that the formulation exactly of his motion is in a motion regarding the Committee Senate Standing of the Peoples aboriginal .
this after - afternoon , the report of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign regarding the study on the Europe we has was circulated .
, the second page of the report , the order of referred is reproduit .
in this order of referred , be is exactly the even formulation , to know that the documents received and the evidence heard on the about , and that the business through by the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign to the over of the first session of the Session Parliament should be removed to the Committee .
we are of notice that we should continue of with these questions as we the have fact by the past .
the Senator Cools :
honourable senators , I will answer for not not losing the opportunity of say few words on this point to the Rules .
the Parliament has closed the session he there has few months and he has now an his activities .
for well understand this question , he must the with on the question of the deliberations of committees who not were not period to the time of the prorogation .
, my notice , the bill of bill C - 7 is completely différentdu bill of bill S - 17 .
we not must not forget that , when a bill of bill is referred to a Committee , in the case this the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional , this is exactly that where he the is .
he is stymied that .
he has was left to the Committee .
he must then the ask how the Senate can refer to a Committee a matter which he not has never took knowledge .
when a Committee receives a matter of the Senate , he must mob to the ask in student the bill of bill .
this is the report of the Committee who fact faith of the respect of the ask who him has was made .
I have s in hands a or , Senator Kinsella .
be about of a bill of bill who has was referred .
the comment 874 of Beauchesne , sixth edition , specific clear that :
the Committee who not has not debated the inquiry to the end of a session can to report to the House of this fact , and that of the evidence that he has heard .
the report establishes that of the evidence have was heard .
he can in addition recommend that to the session next the House him policies the even matter and that he can the serve of the evidence recueillie until - that .
in the case of the bill of bill C - 7 , who was proposed by the government with the support of any the equipment government and the full Authorized of the caucus of a party represented to the Senate , the procedure to follow was therefore that the chairman of the Committee the " to the Senate and its a report receive that the study of the bill of bill was furnished and that the Committee otherwise make the Position that he défendrait more later , since the governments ressuscitent all the issues important which they are before .
spend simply of the paragraph 874 to the paragraph 875 , who 6 this who following :
, least that the House not the allows to in to that , a Committee not can to report of the evidence people before a Committee similar during of a session order , except under form of appendice .
the words performatifs here are " to in to that " .
other said , in the case of the Senator Milne , who chaired the Committee and who not ménage not his efforts , the government has interest to so the evidence already made before the Committee and to power speed the business of the Committee .
the Senator Milne and the members of the Committee would to report of the evidence for the session in over .
he must also think that , in General , a Committee can always study and use the documents and the business of a other Committee , even his own business and evidence .
in this case - this , the Committee of the Affairs legal to to report of the evidence heard .
of after I , this is that he has the intention of ask the Authorized of the Senate , pursuant to this that 6 clear Beauchesne .
the question that he must for is the next : the Authorized of to what ?
as the Senate not has never received of report of the Committee on or the a or the other of these bills of bill , he not has no knowledge of the study of these two bills of bill .
by therefore , we not have not need , to the over of the its session , of a order of referred of the Senate for refer the evidence to the Committee , because the Senate not the to not in his possession , he not can the refer .
this that he must , this is that the Senate is a blundering in good and properly form to the Committee for him ask , when he will this new bill of bill , of to the evidence that he has received to the about of the other bill of bill .
this that he must , this is a order of the Senate , a blundering , Requesting to the Committee of to these evidence in his deliberations , and not that the Senate somatotropin of the documents that he not has not in his possession .
honourable senators , he the is that of two bills of bill different , and the bill of bill C - 7 deserves of be examined of way make and satisfactorily .
the bill of bill C - 7 has was presented of new to the House of the Commons and examined to any steamship .
in substance , the Commons have been a order the Motion to the to quickly and to the adopt after three lectures .
by therefore , if the Senator Milne and the Committee and that the Senator Fraser wish study the bill of bill C - 7 with any the as deal , he enough , he me seems , of the with to the procedure .
the good way of to not is not of ask to the Senate of refer of the evidence that he not has not , but of ask to the Committee of to these evidence in his deliberations .
I hope that I have was clear , if I would pleased of me explain more at .
when the Senator Oliver has presented this motion , with the consent unanimous , I me am adjourned and I him have asked the he the was of a education to the Committee .
he not had can - be not read the section of the Rules , but I believe that his motion was proposed pursuant to the paragraph 58 ( 1 ) .
in response to my question , he has said that he not the was not of a education to the Committee .
the ( 58 ( 1 ) f ) the reads as following :
Peoples instructions to a Committee .
by therefore , the motion is essentially a education to the Committee .
I had provided speak more at of the motion of the Senator Oliver tomorrow and propose a amendment that he would was easy of to , to know , replace the word " referred " by " examined " .
but this is now all to fact there .
he we is , in as that part Maritimer and opérante of the Parliament of the Canada , of to attention to the procedure exactly of Presented of the motions .
we are sometimes a little negligent , though the word be very very .
we our many of things that we could to better in there focused a all small effort .
the purpose of the notice of motion of the Senator Fraser is essentially of before the Committee of the question in up of way fair and get to that the Committee can to to the bill of bill the such of review and of attention that he deserves .
honourable senators , I would probably better fact if I had whereas to tomorrow for to these questions , but I not wanted not losing the opportunity of the to today today .
in fact , the Committee is free of study the evidence of all the other witnesses .
the only something that he not can to , this is this who is banned by the comment 875 ; he not can to report of the evidence people remove except under form of appendice .
the Committee has the powers which he has need .
this was simply a prerequisite Supplementary .
the Hon. the Speaker :
if no other hon. Senator not to take the speak , I am prepared to to my decision .
decision of the Speaker
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when this question has was raised the first time , I have consulted the precedents to the Senate .
I will now try of to my explanation in a order logical .
however , if the be consult the é of the Senate of the 3 November , this who the is said when the Senator Oliver has proposed the motion is clear :
... with the leave of the Senate and nonobstantl' ( 58 ( 1 ) f ) ...
the Hon. the Speaker :
the leave is - it granted ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the motion of the Senator Oliver was therefore valid because that the leave had was granted .
second , I to refer the honourable senators to the part I of the Rules of the Senate who the entitled " Interprétation " and who for this :
( 1 ) cases all the case not some to the Rules , the Senate or his committees looking , with the adaptations necessary , the customs , impressive , formalités and procedures of the a or the other of the Houses of the Parliament of the Canada .
he is clear that our Rules , our impressive and our customs have is on the literature of as such that the Bourinot or the Beauchesne .
we consultons of first our Rules , then we let our impressive and our precedents .
the hon. Senator Kinsella has explained in detail two of our impressive and precedents .
in the case of the motion introduced more earlier today today by the hon. Senator Stewart , the order of referred is clear :
that the documents received and the evidence heard and the work accomplished by the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign to the over of the first session of the 30 - sixth Parliament be removed to the Committee ;
in addition , the Senator Oliver , as the has indicated the Senator Kinsella , has said of new the 3 November , to the page 90 of the é of the Senate , that that had was fact to a other opportunity .
he we somatotropin to the Journals of the Senate of the 2 April 1998 , page 584 , where be reads that the documents received and the evidence heard to the about of the bills of bill S - 10 and S - 12 have was removed to the Committee for the study of the bill of bill S - 14 .
I can find of other precedents if the senators the are .
however , such is , to my knowledge , the practice usual of the Senate .
be are of this way to of not not forward the witnesses to come testify a second time on the even about and of not not have to replicating any the research a second time on a question who has already was most by a Committee Senate or the Senate .
this is and that the ask the practice observed in the past and this is and that it has ground .
the Senator Cools we has removed to the Beauchesne .
as I the have fact out , our practices have is on the Beauchesne .
however , even if you read the comment 874 of the Beauchesne , he is well said that the Committee " can to report to the House . "
, my notice , that not excludes not , then , that the Senate this a other practice because that he not there has nothing of required .
he not is not said that if that not has not was fact , be not can adopt a other practice .
our practice was different .
I Justice that we can study the motion of the Senator Oliver .
want - you that the question rest placed to the behalf of the Senator Cools ?
the Senator Cools :
yes .
the Hon. the Speaker :
it will therefore to the behalf of the Senator Cools .
( the question remains placed to the behalf of the Senator Cools . )
the Conference on the equality and the participation of the women to the life public
inquiry
the hon. Lorna Milne , to of notice the 2 November 99 :
that it call the attention of the Senate on his participation regarding the 70e anniversary of the case " human " in the framework of the Conference on the equality and the participation of the women to the life public to the Canada and to the Kingdom - U who the is held to London , in England , the 21 and 22 October .
this series of conferences has was hosted by Debra Davis and the is held to the House of the Canada , to Trafalgar Square , for celebrate the 70e anniversary of the judgment of the Committee judicial of the Council private British grateful that the women are of the people in bill .
as no Senator Canadian not had was strings to this conference or even informed of his held , I have agreed that I devais there go .
I me am made to London - to my own costs , must - I add - represent the parliamentarians Liberal of the Canada to the conference .
the conference was divided in several sittings of work , which I will mention few - few .
Nancy Ruth , which the great - father has was a lawyer of the group of the five women pictured , has open the conference the Thursday 21 October and we has shown a aspect little different of the history of the case " human " .
in 1929 , the government Labour of her MacDonald had of be elected in Britain - Britain .
the is of the Committee judicial of the Council private had changed , and the time was perfect for a such decision .
the judges have said , in their decision , that the Constitution was as a tree alive and that it was therefore communications with the time .
however , to the Canada , despite the battle that it had win , Emily by was a conservatrice of the Western and the first openness to the Senate was in Ontario .
when the very hon. R . B . Bennett , a Progressive - Conservative , is became Prime Minister , that has created a openness in the Western , but Bennett has supported that he wanted appoint a Catholic since the last Senator to be appointed was a protestant .
I believe that this not was that a apologize for not not appoint Emily .
the conférencière next has was Frances Wright , of Calgary .
it is chairman - Director general of the Famous Five Patron .
it has it - even met the funds necessary , with the assistance generous of five may , which a seat with we to the Senate , nommément the Senator Poy , who not is not here in the time .
it was among the generous donatrices who have contributed financially to the basic of this wonderful when to Calgary .
the when has was dévoilée the 18 October , to the opportunity of the fiftieth anniversary of the decision of the Council private .
the year next , a other when will dévoilée on the Hill of the Parliament , all close of here , between the Block of the East and the part of the Block of the Centre where is located the Senate .
the week last , I me am arrêtée briefly to Calgary after have attended to the meeting general Annual of the Party Liberal of the Canada , who the is held to Edmonton , in Alberta .
, Calgary , I have could visit this new one performance .
me the sat a time on the Chair of Emily , a woman in chemisier is exit in aware of a dining seat .
he the was of Francis Wright , who surveillait the implement .
this is a woman of a subject intellect and very douée .
it has spoke of the situation of the women professional in Britain - Britain and has expressed the notice very frankly .
some of the statistics public that it has quotations fell that the women are conspicuously of the high court of justice of Britain - Britain and that they are very little many to have the as of ' of the Queen , and that in despite of the fact that 25 per of the lawyers enrolled to the bar of this country be of the women .
it has said :
you know all the history of Allerednic ...
the reportedly wife a princesse and the equip in souillon .
this is apparently the sad reality for many of women British .
the second group of discussion had for theme " De the périphérie to the centre :
to hear the Senators of the women " .
he was led by Sandra Anstey , chairman of Anstey Associates , of Toronto .
it has has that the Nations Nations had greeted the Canada to the Prime rank in the world in this who with the equality of the women .
the baronne Crawley , chairman of the Board national of the women in Britain - Britain , relay to this Senate .
it has said :
the Canada has well often shown the seaway to follow , in prônant courageusement the equality between the sexes .
, the Kingdom - U , the last government Labour has fact elected several women to the House of the Commons , but they are still least of 20 per of the members .
however , in the new Parliament écossais , on the 139 members , 48 are of the women .
in England , 40 per of the students in right are now of the women , but the at senior of the profession of the right and of the correction are a bastion of men , and they have a impact enormous on the life to the Kingdom agree
the Board of the equality of the opportunity has 25 years in Britain - Britain .
he the is of a body legislative independent , who that 15 commissioners to their office to London and to Manchester .
they have the power of to of the investigation official , but not the have not fact since of the years .
Ms Barshevkin has issue the theme " - challenge of the human :
the citizenship of the women in a perspective contemporary " .
it has supported that number of changes régressifs s since the case " human " have profoundly influencing on the Position and the rights of the women least favorisées .
the leaders current of the " third include " to the States - United , to the Canada and in Britain - Britain not are not still we for cutting the damage .
good number of the interventions and a great part of the discussion who have followed have were on the Charter Canadian of the rights and freedoms and on the fact that the women British would well that their country the detailed of a made similar .
Susan ; , conseillère key in equality of the sexes to the Department federal of the Justice , has out that the Charter Canadian is as on the rights actions of groups and not of individuals and that this fact only has many amended the right Canadian and the jurisprudence Canadian .
it recognizes however that he the is still of a culture and of a community very masculins , even to the within of the Department of the Justice and certainly to the within of the Department of the Finance , to the Canada .
by Opposition , Lucy Makinson , conseillère in policy to the Board of Majesty Majesty , has claimed that of great progress had recently was made for this who is of answer to the concerns of the women to the within of this Department .
however , the Board not has always not really affordably to the operating the questions féminines , then that 45 per of the women British working still to time part and that the salary way of the women is of 80 per on to , of the men for a work of equal value .
in the debate who has followed , Jeffrey Brown , of the British - British , who is now chairman of the Centre international MATCH , has mentioned that the Charter is a lame to two tranchants and that he there has of the case where of the men the are , with their resources and contacts senior , to the backs of women .
it has given to attention that in fact , he there had can - be of the definitive political féminines to the television British to the hour current , but that the editors political are still particularly masculins .
Trima McQueen , the vice - chairman Executive of CTV , has said that the media not understood all simply not .
it has quoted some new recent to the Canada .
all of first , the new Gouverneure general of the Canada , Adrienne Clarkson , has was immediately attaquée in the media to the about of his prétendues are in as that mother , particularly by of the editors féminines .
of more , the Court Supreme has decided that the aboriginal could continuation for the esteem in all time .
when the system English of the Corporation CBC - Canada has used the term neutre " fishers " , that has raised a from in a group of women the frustrate to the fishing .
when the Court Supreme has decided that the government federal was to his long féminines of the rétroactivité for a work of equal value , the National Financial has claimed that the Court Supreme was between the hands of féministes like .
Yvonne Roberts , a journalist pigiste , described :
the media British are a officine of the power , the men to the power and the women the reléguées in the officines !
the women who are and who they then for rise their children or the lead to a other career are generally attacked , because they not are not ready to " to opposite to the music " .
the situation of the women in Britain - Britain for this who is of the coverage in the media and their participation to this community is all to fact terrible .
for the Senate s : " - women and the right :
promotion of the rights of the woman before the courts " , Carissima Mathen , Director of the from of LEAF , has spoke of " Faire hear our Senators , " the experience Canadian in s of rights to the equality who duration now since 20 years in under of the Charter .
it has has that the of that the judges not are not elected to the within of the regime of right British , they can the to of be impopulaires on the plan policy and of to of the judgments politically impopulaires , but legally decent .
Anuja Dhir , lawyer of London , has spoke of the Affairs recent the more troublantes to be victimized in Britain - Britain .
first , the rape matrimonial has was legal in Britain - Britain for 400 years on to a " verdict record in 1678 .
in 1991 , the verdict record by a court of call has infirmé the fact that a husband had plaidé found for rape marital before a court of decision on .
the woman has then interjeté call with of the House of the Lords , a little as have fact here the five women pictured .
a group of " Lords legal " not including that of the men has heard the call and said that " the idea that which a woman was be the ownership of the husband not the was more and was blessante for the women " .
that the was in 1991 .
it has spoke of the mariages forced with many of emotion because that this is a used widespread to the within of his own culture south - Asian .
the Court Supreme was indeed and had qualified this behaviour of kidnapping and of act criminal .
the third example that Ms Dhir has used is , of the women battues who have killed their earnings their .
well that this as is now to the Canada a part of Defence valid , the invocation of the legitimate Defence or of the provocation as way of Defence require still to the Kingdom - U that he there has reaction immediate for that that be valid .
the as of the woman battue not there is not recognized .
it has firmly fact point that " the equality not means not a treatment equal but to well say a result similar " .
the result is the only part of legislation valid of the real equality .
for the part next , the first oratrice has was the very hon. baronne Jay of Paddington , Rifles Guard of the Sceau Privé , Leader of the House of the Lords and Minister of the Condition of the woman .
it has such the list of the measures legislation that the government Blair has adopted recently , there including this months - this a credit of tax for children who contained to the women .
a regime national of salary minimum has was adopted .
you you Boteler that ?
this is the first time that he there has in Britain - Britain a salary minimum and this legislation the is traduite for 1.3 million of women by a increase of treatment .
the hon. Hedy Frey , Secretary of state to the situation of the woman , has then took the speak and has fact honour to the Canada .
it has an of new the statistics Canadian and has to what point they the are upgraded to the over of the past years .
it has spoke with eloquence of our Act on the equity in s of employment and of " the analysis based on the equality man - woman " that require now the bill Canadian .
it has mentioned that the idea of a policy " Universal " of equality of the sexes has now was using .
we mesurons now the equality in service of the results to the Canada and not in service of a required process of equality .
not only the conference has was very enlightening , but it has represented for the Canada a good the in s of relations public .
in effect , the press British we has spent in a only section more of space that it not we in had spent during any a year .
this section was the implement of Yvonne Roberts and the intitulait : " Northern rights " .
the week following the conference , it has récidivé with a section all also long , entitled : " Under has blaze of Northern rights " , who was the he of the to realized by the Canada .
short , that has was a conference really remarkable , and I am proud of there have attended .
the Hon. the Speaker :
if human of other not to speak , the debate on this inquiry will considered as debated .
the federalism and the globalization
inquiry
the hon. é - A .
Beaudoin , to of notice the Tuesday 2 November 99 :
- honourable senators , I have had the privilege , in October last , of participate to the Forum of the fédérations who the is given to the Les - Tremblant and who has met more of researcher representatives and expert .
this conference touchait four great themes : the federalism , the citizenship and the diversity social ; the federalism economic and social ; the relations Intergovernmental in the fédérations ; the political Social and the federalism .
more of 30 groups of work have was constitués for deal of a great number of issues , which the sharing of the powers , the globalization , the relations Intergovernmental and the citizenship .
the two chairmen , can Rae and Henning Voshereau , have fact a work remarkable and have chaired more of a plenary which the a on the new Ways of the federalism .
the Forum of the fédérations will a existence permanent .
the next s will place in Switzerland in two years .
the government Canadian has paid a amount employees 500 . $ for the held of the Forum of the fédérations .
, my notice , this forum had his reason of be .
I have had the good fortune of chairman a table NRTEE on the federalism and the globalization and this is on this about that I like today today say few words .
, the era modern , the Canada is the a of the more one fédérations ; he is the third , after the States - United , in 1789 , and the Switzerland , in 1848 .
our Constitution has many ground .
the history we Laws that we have of the phases of centralisation and of décentralisation .
we are now in a Phase of décentralisation .
little of country have spent as of time and of energy that the ours to the changeover of a federalism balanced .
be note , in the world , a interest growing for the federalism .
as the fact out the professeurRonald Watts , who was a acteur a to the Forum of the fédérations :
he there has ninety - five years , he not there had to the world that a only newspaper and two centres of research on the federalism .
he there today today several newspapers , and the Association international of the centres of studies of the federalism , who the has each year , that 23 centres and instituts dans15 country over on the five continents .
he is good of the with on some caractèristiques of our Constitution and of the question on the consequences that the globalization could have .
in s of treaties , the Canada has adopted the system dualiste .
in several country , the signing of a treaty change the bill of the country .
he must in more , to the Canada , legislation for to in Bill the treaty who has was signed .
that the jurisprudence , this is the authority federal who sign the treaties .
for to in Bill a treaty , he must follow the sharing of the skills legislation between the federal and the provinces .
and in has decided the jurisprudence in blind , and this jurisprudence not has not have since .
this sharing of skills reflects well the needs of the Canada , to my notice , of as more that we have two systems of right private : the right Civil for the Quebec and the " way way " for the other provinces .
, the Canada , this is the authority federal who can legislation extraterritorialement , who émet the passeports and who manages the policy foreign .
, the within of the Agency of cooperation cultural and technical , the Quebec and the New - Brunswick have the even status of government participant .
the government federal has agreed in some case that of the ministers provincial do part of the delegations Canadian to the abroad and can the chairman to the opportunity or act to as of vice - chairmen .
the 17 November 1965 , the Canada and the France have signed a Agreement cultural franco - Canadian who habilitait the provinces to conclude of the agreements directly with the France in the field of the culture .
a province can , to the within of this agreed - framework , conclude of the agreements directly with the France .
if the agreement today the framework of the agreed , then the federal must the ratify for him legislation a would .
good number of agreements France - Quebec have was treaties of this way .
the arrangements administrative are came add a part Supplementary of flexibility to the within of our system federal .
they not will not the Constitution , but facilitent the application .
they are necessary in the federalism modern .
he there has had to the Canada a agreed administrative in December 1975 between the authority federal and the provinces in the field of the rights of the human .
this agreed fixed the mechanisms of cooperation and of consultation of the two levels of government in the phases of application to the Canada of the rights of the human .
the federalism modern , in the perspective of the globalization , becomes of more in more of appropriate .
and , the ratification of the Agreement of free Exchange North - American has heavy the process of globalization in America .
the trade and the trade not are almost more of boundaries .
he in is and in the other parties of the world , in Europe , by example .
the impact of the globalization the fact feel to all the levels : commercial , cultural and policy .
of even , the erosion of the sovereignty of the States to the profit of great never - the NAFTA , Union European - is of more in more visible .
the state federal can promote the participation of his components to the process of globalization all in ensuring the cohesion of his policy foreign .
, the Canada , be think spontanément to the member of the Francophonie .
he could there of other areas .
as the " the professor Richard Simeon to the Forum of the fédérations to the Les - Tremblant :
what that be the good point of view , he is clear that with the globalization , the federalism not has not of there to the border : the forces global have of the effects powerful on the relations to the level national , and the uniqueness federal of the country is inevitably projeté on the scene international .
in conclusion , I quote few citations of the Presented of the professor Earl H . Fry to the Forum of the fédérations , who the is given to the Les - Tremblant in October 99 :
he is obvious that he will increase the consultation and the cooperation between the governments if the plans federal want benefit of the many opportunities who their are area and reduce to the minimum the impact separate of the globalization .
, the enter of the new century , he there has very strong opportunity that the trend to the globalization the accentue still and that the interconnection between the economies local , national and international the heritage .
the model Canadian is can - be a good point of departure for the fédérations désireuses of to on at or of peaufiner the institutions and procedures Intergovernmental necessary for the adapt to the globalization to the 21 century .
the Hon. the Speaker Acting :
if no other hon. Senator not to take the speak , the debate on this inquiry will debated .
the situation of the aboriginal and their future
inquiry - Adjourned of the debate
the hon. Aurélien Gill , to of notice lejeudi 4 November 99 :
that he call the attention of the Senate on the situation of the aboriginal to of we to of to the point and of reflect on the measures appropriate for the future .
I not you surprendrais not not more if I you was on of my enthusiasm and of my faith .
since a year , I be , I hear and I hear .
he is time now of take the speak .
my identity and my life witnessing of my principles and of my convictions .
when I taking in back , I note how was difficult , during my time of life , the fight for the simple recognition of this that I am .
I have in to this fight , to this combat , to this réveil and , on this long move , I have often ' my principles to the it .
I consider as a duty of me serve of my Position to the Senate for still better express this to what I believe and this why I have lived the life who was the my .
the speak relates a message , he must the say and the quarrel , with always more of serious and of wisdom .
the speak is often all this that he we rest .
you see that I rise my role to the seriously and I the take and as and also long that he me will of of power me express publicly .
the Senate is s the place for at these words serious that we meetings in we , of the words who we with all and who have a interest national .
the Prime Minister of the Canada , Mr. Jean Chr , démontrait the openness of spirit in me him to the Senate .
the question of the First Nations is of a great importance for the Canada .
he in will of the future .
we the let too often as a Hydro , a point of the grandchildren cauchemars recurring which we we happen the time of the forget .
however , the heart of the question not is that rarely issue .
this is in the air of the time that of speak of the new millennium who the which before we .
the 20 century not will not was favourable to the aboriginal of this country .
the 19 century had was assistance and arid .
that fact therefore 200 years that our Nations are the suffering - pain of the history .
we have was dépouillés of our identités .
our Lands were spoliées .
the treaties not have not was respected , be we has ' in tutelage .
we fûmes overlooked in the Alexander step of the addiction , of the paternalism , must of a bill inique , prisoners of the reserves Indian , submitted to all the pressure of the assimilation .
can - we hope that the next century be finally , of the one , of the recovery and of the rebirth ?
to long was on the furthering of these struggles , my notice must well have someone negative .
in as that former Leader of the Nations montagnaises and of the Attikameks , to the as of former Leader of my community of Mashteuiatsh , to Guadeloupe - Bleue , I am of those who dismiss that we even now of time .
he there has emergency in the remains .
if someone change basic not is not took soon in our loss policy , I have the conviction that the things tourneront difficulty .
for the moment , we are of the time to the Room , in the hope that each the résorbe .
since 20 years , he in is and :
Kanesatake , Ipperwash , Gustafsen Lake and Burnt Church .
he is happy that no not has really dérapé .
each would could we plonger in of the drames many more unhappy that this that we have known until to this day .
I not can stay silent on of the issues of a if great importance because here , the silence is disappointment .
well course , since 40 years , we have all fact of the move .
we have even reached a point that the be not could imagine when I was young man .
more human not degenerated the fact that we are the first people of this country .
we are on this land , today today called Canada , since of the millénaires .
the Constitution Canadian is of our right .
however , if our right is should in the document founding of the nation , the content of this right rest a mystery to the be of several .
jadis , in a past who not is not if way , our from have received the new arrivants and they the have drafting .
the first part of the history of our relations in is a of partnership .
this not is that more later that the on of the guest has changed .
yes , he would réécrire the history .
we have a great on to this history , but this on we is also niée , as was denied our commitment to our Lands , as were niées our contributions to the survival , to the life and to the philosophical .
he would pressing of the place , of the according , in a word of learn to the recount .
Sachons that the concept of the two Nations fondatrices or Peoples founding we has fact very difficulty , to we of the First Nations .
the Canada has is and well a vice of foundation when he the is of build his representation national .
how hang what that this be on a situation oversight , on a similar misunderstanding ?
we have was and we are always .
we have was useful in the war , in the trade , in the institution of the only , in the alliances , in the amitiés , in the construction of this country .
we have was and we are always , we the Montagnais Innus , we the shacks , the Wendat , the Ojibways - Anishinabes , the Blackfoot - Siksika , the Assiniboines , the Lilioets , the Tsequoitin , the Haidas or the Gitchwin .
we must see that despite all the efforts , despite the years who the écoulent , the great majority of the Canadians know the essential and the important in this who with the First Nations .
the last commission Royal on the about , the Board Erasmus - Dussault , the fact a time still , and it in was a eminent dramatique : yes , the Canadians know still the essential and this ignorance has of the consequences political .
I say that it push on the will policy because , we the know all , the ignorance casts the prejudice and the prejudice exaspèrent .
is the uproar that the be will .
the existence and the persistance of this speech in the year 2000 are for all the Canadians a failure unhappy .
the First Nations not were for absolutely nothing in the drafting , the enacted and the application of the Act on the Indian .
but who knows to the Canada the existence even of this bill , who in knows the nature , who can in was the tragic scope , the historic make ?
the status of Indian Canadian in is a of under - citizenship .
the bill applies the concept of tutelage .
this long tutelage we has infantilisés and the history fact the evidence that we have all lost , there including our dignity .
the Act on the Indian , well that overhaul and amended , there always in the spirit General .
it has created , on a period of 125 years , a situation infamous , a world step , the world complex of the reserves Indian , the addiction eliminates , the Alexander closed of the Affairs Indian .
the Canadians in General , the Canadians well éduqués in particular , not are not the treaties .
they know still least that no treaty not has was respected by the state Canadian and the other governments .
that the be point the misunderstandings , that the be it call to all the contingences that the be want , that not finds nothing to the results .
we have was floués in all the dimensions of our identity , in all the recoins of our rights the more basic .
but that rest a secret well in .
he enough of read and of hear our definitive and our white the more distinguished for throughout , day after day , how the ignorance fact of the damage .
be recognizes more easily the situation of the Timor oriental that the who pourrit to the within of our own country .
the Canada not has always not fact the review of conscience in this who has with to the First Nations .
he there has had inequity to the regard of those who were vilifying of the Sauvages , then of the Indian , then of the Amérindiens , then of the aboriginal , then be not knows more what invent .
this great inequity perdure to the within of a society Canadian who claims not not the core .
nothing not is possible or not will possible without that this brèche his not be réparée , without that justice be made .
I as that , during my time of life , we have fact of the move .
unfortunately , the recognition of our rights seems play in our défaveur .
the content of these rights remains a mystery , seems he .
this recognition in exaspère more of a .
in as that Peoples , we are raised as of the threats .
our destiny is became legal .
we are coincés between the corridor étroit , for not not say abstrait , of the right , and the reality duration , for not not say tordue , of the prejudice on the ground of the true life .
this is the history of the First Nations , the a we slogan this that the other we refuses .
a day or the other , he will in out .
the First Nations their to the self , to the responsibility and to the dignity .
for in out , s , he must Koreas the circle condemned of the tutelage and the hell of the addiction .
the Affairs Indian conscious very sir to the Canadians and the results will negative .
he is necessary and pressing of back to the First Nations a place in the loss Canadian , a place policy , economic and geographical .
we défendons our rights , we défendons our identity , we we battons for our future to the within of the nation Canadian .
I am Senator and I am aboriginal .
I not to not have shame of my country .
I have worked any my life to the restoration of our rights , because we have the right of be and of be proud in as that Dene , in as that Inuit , in as that Sarcees or tis .
a great fossé rest to fill , but he must the preferred .
in the years who come , to from of this institution that is the Senate , I hear to my humble contribution to the value of the speak and of the wisdom .
I thinkers on the wisdom .
in this spirit , I will use to all the notice and advice that he me will possible of obtain in the levels of the contained and of Communications , because he is essential that the message on .
we must all work to the openness of the spirit .
in my interventions next , I me move of to before you with more of information .
I me move of participate fully to the discussions of the Committee Standing of the Peoples aboriginal .
I am determined , to from of my as to the Senate and in the legislation of my means , to all to in implement for we the debate in a sense positive .
we we must all of rise the level of this debate and the action the more high is to inform the public Canadian of the issues enemies .
he must combat all together the effects devastating of the misinformation , of the are quick , of the accusations replace .
if we not réussissons not to to this debate to the Senate , who therefore there réussira ?
despite any the ignorance ambiante who génère as of narrow , despite the fact that several our of the situation to from of a parcelle of information , he rest that the situation of the aboriginal is dramatique .
will say to the Algonquins of the miscamingue , to the Ojibways of the west of the Ontario , to the shacks of the west of the by of James , to the Tuchones of the Yukon that all will for the better in the better of the mondes .
will visit the reserves Indian of the year 2000 , you will that he not there has not place of be cynic or sarcastique .
this not is not a at of word , this not are not of the views of the spirit .
, the even as that the poverty , the question of the First Nations is this that I appellerais a emergency national .
we must be refurbishing in our responsibilities .
he is necessary of invent to the has national a structure who , for the moment , not there not .
he must go more far that the Senator of right .
the aboriginal must since of their this , of their future .
already that the challenge is colossal , not would - he not finally fair that of we let the opportunity of the met ?
in conclusion , I you say that the case will more far .
if the Canada not is not the way of solve this case , the Canada not résoudra nothing in as that nation .
he must certainly cutting of emergency but he will also we expand , grow and help to the only economic and cultural of this country .
the " indianité " not the nutshell not to the moccasins , to the dance and to the traditions .
the Canada of tomorrow will also , of the First Nations .
because we have survived to a well sad history .
we take our place , we the reprenons , we must succeed to restore the former partnerships .
he not there has not to qualify the qualify .
how of drain , of intelligences , of commissions , of consultation , of committees special , of research that will he ?
during the 50 past years , I believe well that all has was said .
rest to create , to most excursions the process historic who we will there collectively and dignement .
the First Nations must the allowed .
the process is irréversible .
for grow of way stand , he must of the territory and of the resources , he we must a place to we in this country .
he we must avertir , open the spirit , help to the implementation in place of this who not there not still , promote the creativity , the Innovation policy , the return of the responsibility , of the self and of the dignity .
I wish to this that the Canada the example , I not with not to this that he the dégrade .
the First Nations must the with of they - same with a treasury who not is not today , with of the rights affirmés , with of the resources , with a Senators in the Affairs national .
we have a Coast enormous to back .
he is impossible that be we refuses the right real of to we - same this that human not can to to our place .
( on the motion of the Senator Watt , the debate is adjourned . )
Affairs Social , Science and Technology
Authorized to the Committee of sit in even time that the Senate
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , as we done today today a little more long that we not the do usually the Wednesday , if the Senate there agreed and notwithstanding the ( 58 ( 1 ) has ) of the Rules , I move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology be authorized to sit for that the Senate seat today today and that the application of the paragraph 95 ( 4 ) be suspended to this regard .
the Hon. the Speaker :
is - be of agreed , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
transport and Communications
Authorized to the Committee of sit in even time that the Senate
the hon. Lise Bacon :
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the section 95 ( 4 ) of the Rules , I move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the transport and of the Communications be authorized to sit for the Senate of the Senate of today today , and that the application duparagraphe 95 ( 4 ) of the Rules be suspended to this regard .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , the leave is - it granted ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
the Board of customerdemands of the environment for the children
Adopted of the motion of institution
the hon. Mira Spivak , pursuant to the notice 2 November 99 , move :
that the Senate urge the government to tough a office of customerdemands of the environment for the children , be a body stand responsible of promote the protection of the children against the risks environmental .
the senators who have sat to the Committee on the bill of bill C - 32 and who have heard the representatives of the Institute Canadian of the health upon regarding the institution of this office are a great part of my reaching .
the first of these reasons , and who is certainly enough , is that we have angry need of this office of customerdemands of the environment for the children .
the children are more will by the polluants environmental .
, the Committee , be we has explained why , in words scientific , and he worth the only of the repeat because this is the key of all the rest .
during the six first months of his life , a bébé ingère seven time more of water by kilogramme of negative that a - .
a child of a to five years mange three to four time more of food , by kilogramme of negative , that a - .
a bébé endormi based a volume of air two time more important that not the fact a - to the repos .
all that means that the water , the air or the food pollués have a impact many more dismantling on a child that on you .
this impact it sometimes of the séquelles for any the life ; he is sometimes irréversible .
when the bébé the is still in the body of his mother , or when he is nursed to the within and that the body of his mother is pollué , a low amount of botulinum delivered to the bad time can standard the lack , the surdité , a crisis cérébrale or a prohibits independent .
, the over of the past decades , the scientific have could the see in the framework of the studies which with of children presentations to the plomb or which the mothers had consumed of the fish pollué to the wastes from of the Lakes Lakes or still with of children Regarding in of the communities victims of hospitalizations to the méthylmercure .
this months - this , the Centre for Health and Environment and Justice of the States - United has released a amount important of new data on the effects of a pollutants are Threat , the dioxine .
the over the more encroachment of this report , this is that the dioxine frequently found in the food enough for entraver the growth and the development of the children .
the beef haché contains normally 1.5 parties of dioxine by trillion , the cheese persillé milligrams parties and a pilon of chicken or a morceau of aiglefin 0,03 parties by trillion .
the nourrissons absorbent each day a amount of dioxine many more way that the adults .
the reason , this is that the dioxine the so in the milk maternel .
that some studies , the babies nourris to the within to the Canada absorbent 26 parties by trillion of dioxine , be about 30 per of more that the babies to the States - United , more of the double of this that absorbent the babies in Russia and more of eight time this that absorbent the babies in Thailand .
I not in know not the reason .
what are exactly the effects of the dioxine on the children ?
be has established a link between the exposure to the dioxine before the birth and a more low quotient beloved , a behaviour renfermé or dépressif , the hyperactivité , and a system immunitaire more low .
the dioxine has a effect so powerful that be has also observers that it had a effect on the over of the sexes .
the report contains of the workplace of recommendations for prevent the malaise future .
he suggestion , by example , to the place of brûler the ordures , the key source of dioxine , of to of the Retraining intensif , of reduce the PCB and of to in place of best measures of protection of the environment .
a other suggestion , this is of stop of brûler the PCB medical and dangerous , of eliminate phase the Contents plastiques who are a other source important of dioxine , or of - the pesticides tainted to the dioxine .
we have the choice .
of the children have paid sir for that we acquérions the knowledge as make to the prevention , but human not can say to the government how apply these knowledge .
this is a service which the encountered a office of customerdemands of the environment for the children .
he définirait the present bloc of the knowledge and collaborerait with of other departments and agencies of the government for that be é that of these knowledge on the children in the development of the regulations .
without this office , the rate of pollution tolérables continue presumably of be under in the purpose of protect the men adults advertised , and not the women and the children .
however , this not is that that a part of this who only the implementation in place of the office .
we have also need of the office for lead the research on of the questions troublantes which we not have not still found of good answers .
why the number of the children asthmatiques has he quadruplé since few decades ?
a office of customerdemands of the environment for the children could promote this such of research , as could the to the centres of excellence for the well - be of the children .
he there has more of two years and half , the government has promised of any 20 million of $ on five years to the research on the health of the children who would done by the new centres of excellence .
a Diori of months have past , but nothing not has was fact .
I hope that the government instead the implementation on at of these centres and the tighten on of other recommendations included in the speech of the Throne .
this is to only if we we that of the health of the children when we envisageons of the Estimates , of the regulations or a policy .
we not know even not what Contents monitoring the find usually in our reacts of games , our garderies and our schools .
we not have not of lines guidelines to to reduce the exposure of the children to of the Contents monitoring that where they just the more clear of their time .
he there has of other duties that could assume a office of customerdemands of the environment for the children .
second , we should support this motion for to in so that our country respect the commitments that he has took in remedied the statement of 1998 that the leaders of the G - 8 have made on the health of the children and the environment and in has the Convention of 1991 Current to the rights of the child .
for respect these commitments , he must a leadership policy , a leadership as , which we have was witnesses to the States - United . , little close to the even time where our leaders promettaient to their constituents all they of measures for the children , the chairman Clinton has ordered to all the agencies federal of determine of way priority the risks for the security and the customerdemands Environmental may of have of the impact " on the children and of amend the political , the programs , the activities and the standards in because for correct this imbalance .
little after , laU.S. Environmental Mammals Agency has created the office of customerdemands of the environment for the children to of the with to the ask of the chairman , and the body has announced the implementation in place of a program in 1995 - a program national to to protect the health of the children against the risks environmental .
be not knows not clear what on of the changes he must wants to the office and to the programs ' in place by the EPA .
this that the be knows however , this is that laU.S. Food Quality Mammals Act require now the reassessment of the levels of tolerance regarding close of 10 . pesticides , that the new standard atmosphérique linked to the ozone should the publicize each year by a million of case of shortened pulmonaires of least in the children and that the EPA ask to the staff of take in consideration the new - Regarding , the children and the women nursing when it establishes the standards provisions to the water terrifying .
if , however , we we concentrons on the more vulnerable of between we , to know the children in growth , we will all a better opportunity of be protected .
I know that the office proposed has been the enthusiasm of the senators of in opposite when he in has was question to the Committee .
I hope do that the interest of some of between them not the is not démenti and that these senators may to the debate and convaincront their colleagues of support this motion .
the Hon. the Speaker :
pleasure - he to the senators of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
( the Senate the adjourned to 14 p.m. tomorrow . )
debates of the Senate ( Hansard )
wondering Session , Session st ,
volume 6,401 , Issue 9
the Thursday 18 November 99
the hon. Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker
table of the Contents
the business of the Senate
the hon. John B . Stewart
tributes to the opportunity of the departure to the retirement
' ' '
the Day national of the child
Mr. . Irwin Cotler
congratulations to the opportunity of the election as member of the riding of Les - Royal
Affairs routine
Banking and trade
Tabled of the Prime report of the Committee
education post
Tabled of the Prime report of the Committee Special
the adjournment
the Act on the divorce
bill of bill Amend - First Reading
Affairs Social , Science and Technology
notice of motion Motion the Committee to to the with Electronic
notice of motion Motion the Committee to clerical of the services
notice of motion Motion the Committee to to the facts new regarding the Suicide and the assistance to the suicide
Banking and trade
notice of motion Motion the Committee to study the situation of the regime financial domestique and international
privileges , Rules and procedure
Authorized to the Committee of sit in even time that the Senate
languages official
Authorized to the Committee Joint Standing of sit in even time that the Senate
PERIOD PERIOD question
the Affairs foreign
the Sudan - Position participation of the society Talisman EnergyInc. - Position response to the criticism of the community international
the Sudan - Position participation of the society Talisman EnergyInc. - Position policy of the government on the Opposition between the plateforme of the security human and the interests of the investors
the trade international
the Agreement of free - Exchange North - American - - proceedings his by a society Processors in make of the loss of a contract of Purchase of water in vrac - Position Position of the government
the policy of the government regarding the Defence against of the proceedings class by of the companies
the business of the sénat
use to the Rules
order DAY THE
bill of bill on the protection of the information personal and the documents electronic
second Reading - Continued of the debate
the Act on the Defence national Position Act on the identification by the fingerprints génétiques - Code criminal
bill of bill Amend - Second Reading
referred to the Committee
the Act admissibility the taken of decisions Medical
second Reading - Continued of the debate
Affairs legal and Constitutional
motion Requesting the Authorized of use the documents and evidence collected during of the review of the bill of bill precedent for the study of the bill of bill present - Stands of the debate
Authorized to the Committee of use the documents and evidence collected during of the review of the bill of bill precedent for the study of the bill of bill present
the SENATE
the Thursday 18 November 99
the Senate is met to 14 p.m. , the Speaker the to the Chair .
prayers .
the business of the Senate
the Hon. the Speaker :
I be replaced to the Chair by the new Speaker good tempore , the Senator Cool - Losier , that I for for his appointment to this as .
the hon. John B . Stewart
tributes to the opportunity of the departure to the retirement
the hon. B . Alasdair Graham :
honourable senators , the first time that I have met the Senator John B . Stewart , he there has of many years , he was already very respected in the as academic for have fact of the studies of Prime graduate to the University graduated and of the studies higher to the University Columbia to New York , and that for have was successivement professor of Science political and steering of the département of Science political to the college Barnard of New York .
John has was associated to the Foundation Rockefeller until to the return in Nova - Nova , in 1959 , where he is was to the département of Science political of the St. Francis Xavier .
about three years more later , the professor Stewart was elected member for the riding of Antigonish - Guysborough .
he was re in 1963 and in 1965 .
these events are part of my best memories political .
after the éclatante victory remportée by Diefenbaker in 1958 , the Association Liberal of the coincidental of Antigonish - Guysborough has decided that we find we to in - of a candidate who be the more dignified of faith that possible .
each time that he there had a discussion , someone a the enquérait to the about of this new professor , John Stewart , to - as they the appelaient sometimes -St. FX .
who would enough of influence and of credibility , in fact , of courage for the call ?
he has fact in so that the professor Stewart the is in the office in the former wing on the campuses of the quoted university , by a Saturday night orageux .
the telephone " :
Allô ?
professor Stewart ?
here Lester Pearson .
and the rest , this is of the history !
a small precision to about of this anecdote : the senators the will Mr. Pearson was fanatique of sports and that he followed regularly the matches of hockey Canadian diffusés to the television , the Saturday night .
the call to the professor Stewart erroneous of Stornoway and has had place between the first and the second period of the match origins the Canadians of Montreal to the Maple Leafs of Toronto .
the Senator Mahovlich :
who earned ?
the Senator Graham :
if I me in recall well , Frank was the third biting this night - that .
for the six years that he has fellow to the House of the Commons , John Stewart the is revealed the student the more hard of the system Parliamentary that he me has was of of know , the distinguant , as he the has fact any his life during , by the work seriously , succeeds essentially for the more great well of his province of origin and of the country .
each of his over was archi - comble .
someone a has already said that the influence of a enseignant or of a teacher the ) for always .
he or it not knows never where the come this influence .
in the case of the professor Stewart , who has the reputation légendaire of form of the people who get of the scholarships of the Foundation Rhodes , this influence has indeed was enormous .
the Senator Lynch - Lynch :
they have can - be fact someone something of well !
the Senator Graham :
fortunately , the professor Stewart is came that to time for take in with and orienter the Prime Minister of the New - Brunswick , Frank McKenna .
the professor Stewart has also persistent of the thoughts to the about of the experience Parliamentary and released two literature by authority and has by a broader public regarding the process Parliamentary . cases a of his literature precedents entitled :
Political and Moral Thought of David Hume , the professor Stewart has shown his concern Increase to the regard of the touchstone moral of the policy democratic .
he has including quoted a a of the work such of this philosopher écossais who is considered as a of the pioneers of the Science political :
of all the men who the distinguent through to their accomplishments crash , the place of honour seems to to the legislators who transmettent a system of laws and of the institutions to to ensure the peace , the happiness and the freedom to the generations future .
Hume has fully of the generations of parliamentarians in become , all these representatives of the public binge and field who had including that the reason of be of a good government is of including of the laws and of the institutions based on the justice .
of fact , the Senator John Stewart was become to the over of his long career Parliamentary the quintessence even of the législateur course and conscientious imaginé by David Hume several centuries before : a législateur who on whether this who is fair ; a législateur who saisit the importance of the we in the creation and the protection of our society free ; a législateur to to heart the well public ; a législateur who not it nothing to the accident ; a man who has took a spirit great and a energy boundless to the service of his community , of the students , of his province and of the country ; a patriot thought who has always including , as the to the old adage , that those who the expect to récolter the result of the freedom must in pay the price .
the deep sense of the service of John Stewart the has led to to a energy incredible in the committees , that this be in the Committee of the fisheries or in , of the Banking or still in his service important and very as of chairman of the Committee of the Affairs foreign , in Work with jurisdiction and as all the questions complex who made of the Position respected of the Canada on the scene World .
he there has a little more of a century , the such CanadienEdward Blake has spoke of manner simple of the means of the Parliament to the House .
he has said :
the privileges of the Parliament are the privileges of the people .
the rights of the Parliament are the rights of the people .
these words , honourable senators , have was the in of the life and of the time an of the Senator John Stewart .
the rights and the privileges of the Parliament taking their source in the rights of our people - in the privileges , in the wisdom and in the humanity of our people .
to had the great privilege of have John Stewart for mentor and to was for him a colleague and a friend for of many years , I am proud of say that a place of honour particular and well deserved with to this législateur I and an , this course and he servant of the people and this enseignant drama who has left his in indélébile and temporal in the history .
yes , a place of honour particular with to the Senator John Stewart , who will angry be to the over of the days and of the years to come to good number of between we who are to the service of our wonderful country .
the hon. Lowell Murray :
honourable senators , I not have not led of inquiry specific with of the honourable senators , but I believe that the Senator Graham and I - even know the Senator Stewart since more long that anyone of other to the Senate .
in all case , we we are met for the first time he there has 40 years .
that me give , me seems he , a sure right and a some jurisdiction for speak of him .
in 1959 , be few years after have from my had of the St. Francis Xavier , I have led the office of the graduates to Antigonish .
this fall - that , the professeurJohn B . Stewart is income in the province and the coincidental where he is unborn after have left the as of enseignant - which has spoke the Senator Graham - to the University Columbia and his service of ' to the Rockefeller Patron to of with of the duties of professor of Science political to the St. Francis Xavier .
each day of class by the on , the professor Stewart and I have dîné together to the even table , in the Room to eat of the their of the St. FX .
in this who was to the time the St. of the saints , John Stewart and I were two foreign - him , a protestant , and I , a Progressive - Conservative .
fortunately for John Stewart , this was also the time where the movement oecuménique saw the day under the leadership of the Pope Jean XXIII .
the their tendaient the with of the fellowship , of the friendship and of the brotherhood to those that they appelaient " our brothers separating " , which John Stewart was part .
unfortunately , he has was a little more of time to the révérends Fathers for the take of sympathy for the Progressive - Conservatives .
what that he in be , to few opportunities to the Senate these past years , sometimes to of the times rather tendus of our debates , I have already said that I not know no other professor of the St. FX or of , who has inspired to his students as of respect and of admiration that John Stewart .
as the Senator Graham the has said , he is true that I not have not was to proprement speak a student of John Stewart , but as well of other , I have was the student here , to this place .
, the opportunity , in the framework of the debates , he averted my performance .
I not have never from better that a C of among in his Evaluations .
of any way , I not can explain by experience why he from of a if high believe of the on of his students .
I think that be can be to little close sure that he not anyone not the popularity in the pliant to the requirements of the culture adolescente , as the are some not .
, my notice , he is more likely that he earned their respect because that he the comply him - even for their intellect and their judgment and because that he drawing of the criteria of excellence high - not of the criteria inatteignables , but of the criteria high - and that he knew from the better of his students .
you find of the men and of the women who , well of the years more later , will that the point grand of their life of student has was the fact of have could côtoyer John Stewart .
be me has said that a sure number of between them the are made he there has few weeks to the St. FX for participate to a s particular and to a tribute to their former professor .
I am sure that he has should be very moved of their presence and of their evidence of respect and of believe .
is a university who the is frayé a move in policy .
I like say few words on the election of 1962 .
however , this was a great victory pourJohn Stewart .
he has ramené the party of very far , that given of the peerage of in which the candidate precedent , Al Graham , the had left .
the Senator Graham :
I had avoided that .
the Senator Murray :
the Senator Stewart is can - be a university who has avid in policy , but he not has never shown the détachement proverbial of the academic to the regard of the events political .
all of first , nothing of this who is came in his riding or to the about not him has never escaped .
few years after the time where we mangions together all the midis to Antigonish , I was here to as of Deputy first in the government Diefenbaker when he is came as member newly elected of Antigonish - Guysborough .
I me recall of a series of télégrammes separatists that I have received in report with a some parcelle of ground that the government had achetée or not had not achetée in the city of Antigonish for there build a new building federal .
no grief not was thought , particularly when the Conservatives were to the power .
this is a expert of the questions Constitutional and procédurières and he has was chairman of our Committee of the Affairs foreign , but this which I me remind the better of the years that I have fellow to receive the questions , this are all these concerns that had the Senator Stewart for the fisheries in Nova - Nova , for the impact on the Nova - Nova of the policy federal in s of highways , for the construction of a bridge Work to the Island - Edward - Prince - Edward or for the impact of the GST on all the Canadians .
can - be say that this university is drove of the spirit of party ?
I not have that a something to say .
as he the has often repeatedly , we fundamentally a sport of team , and to this chapter , I must by that he achiever .
the Senator Graham has spoke of the two literature that the Senator Stewart has published on the philosopher écossais David Hume , the Prime the entitled :
the Moral and Political Philosophy of David Hume , and the second Opinion and Reform in Hume' s Political Philosophy .
honourable senators , I not have not read these books .
in 1761 , the Church Catholic has put all the literature of Hume to the spoken and I there therefore , by extension , that the books writing on him by John Stewart have - the even fate .
be not cannot be too prudent in of the case of this such .
I consider that the shut of read the books written by David Hume or to the about is the a of the measures the least distressing cut by the Church Catholic .
far of duty be to the spoken of anyone , he mériterait of be read by all the parliamentarians - but particularly those of the other place .
all the world knows that our colleagues of the other place not are not of great readers and that their report of attention not today not , of the oiseau - time , but I the encourage to read the chapter 1 .
they there liquidity finally a description be not can more limpide of the House of the Commons - and of the Parliament all around , even if the professor Stewart not refers not clear the Senate .
they there would , as I the have said the other day in a other context , to the to remind their prerogatives , and lireJohn Stewart their would great well to this regard .
with the departure of the Senator Stewart , we lose a of our best parliamentarians and the Nova - Nova , a representative sanity carefully and very appropriate .
if the government to him to a ride and a office in the parages , I not there see not of generates .
of the Senators :
hear !
the Senator Murray :
after all , if the Senator Grafstein can the to of what the former Senator MacEachen of " treasury national " , we can to fair as see in the Senator Stewart a valuable resources not registration .
is why , Honour Hon. , the time come , I be all prepared to to a proposal , seconded by the Senator Lynch - Lynch , who in has had the idea , to that the office served we by the former Senator MacEachen be ' to perpétuité to the clause of the former Senator Stewart .
of the Senators :
hear !
the Hon. the Speaker :
must - I understand , hon. Senator Murray , that you proposez a motion ?
the Senator Murray :
with the leave of the Senate .
the Hon. the Speaker :
is - this of agreed , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I me is I - even in a Chair who me authority the honour of be the next orator .
this is a real honour .
this is for I a great happy of to tribute to my colleague , the hon. Senator Stewart .
all in listening carefully the other speakers , he me is come to the spirit that the Senator Stewart has a side fantasque and humourous that he we has revealed to the dinner that we have organized in the honour when , by example , he has spoke of the day where he was was in the Room of the Senate and had treaty the Senator Murray of tyran and the Speaker of usurpateur - by mistake , of after this that I the have heard say .
my remember the more sir of the Senator Stewart not just not of here , but rather of my only visit to Antigonish , where I was went attend to the conference MacEachen .
the Senator Stewart has had the kindness of me explain the importance that had the university where he had unequal , at Francis Xavier , and the mystery that constituency for I all these people who circulaient in to to the doigt a chevalière ornée of a X , of the people who were of the associated to my s of lawyers and that I had the Appendix of see across in my city , Calgary .
I know now of where they come .
I in am came to admired their training and the opportunity who seems the follow since their exit St. Francis Xavier .
with of the not of the trempe of the Senator Stewart , the quality of their training was something some .
the Senator Stewart has played a role remarkable here .
I like I also mention a of his literature .
I not have not read Hume and , as the Senator Murray , I not have not the intention of the to , but not for the same reasons rigides for which the Senator Murray the refuses to read Hume .
the is :
the leaders of the parties to the House in are the heroes overlooked .
each of them must have a double loyalty : to the party and to the House .
good number of their ennuis come of the fact that their colleagues not the soucient not of the House or the there interested many too .
sometimes , they not held not that of the House .
sometimes also they him overwhelmingly too of importance , of so that all the concessions made to their Provincial for in facilitate the business just for of warning capitulations .
listen well , Senator Boudreau .
he add :
little any the conflict who from between ambitions and opinions , the leaders of the House must ensure the operating of the system .
I in am became extremely aware , then that I not the was not to my arrived to the Senate .
this who is all to the honour , in as that university and politician , the Senator Stewart we has all prodigué this education .
if only we were all prepared to the hear !
I you hear now , Senator Stewart .
all to the long of the mandate , the Senator Stewart has was a great Leader .
he has including sat with distinction to the Committee of the Affairs foreign .
my experience in this field the limited , I can now have a idea of the difficulty of this task .
on the Hill of the Parliament , the Senator Stewart has a sure number of on , and I me hasten of add , honourable senators , that we are all of the on of John Stewart .
we the respect as professor because , to of many opportunities , we have learned of him and have followed his interdependent to the over of our deliberations .
Senator Stewart , I believe that the more great tribute that this House can to to a Senator , this is of him express the deep respect .
your contribution we will ; however , you we let to all a legs asset and particularly of the principles very important for we guide .
that your retirement be full of new experiences , of beautiful books to read and to write , and of spirit to form .
of the Senators :
hear !
the hon. Roch Bolduc :
honourable senators , I have met John Stewart for the first time to the fall 1988 , when I have was appointed to the Senate .
for five years , we have sat together to the Committee of the Finance national and for the 11 past years , we have all two fact part of the Committee of the Affairs foreign .
we have of other things in common : of the studies higher to the States - United , a as of university , a for particular for the philosophical policy , and this that I appellerais a some service for the service public - John Stewart , in as that member and Senator , and I , as official and Senator .
of other things we about .
John is a English of origin highland ; he is protestant , cold to the States - United all in the a Liberal Mohawk of Harvard , and a writer distinguished .
I am French , Canadian French , Catholic , Conservative as the people of s , friend of the States - United and former manager .
I must say however that , to the over of the years , we have shared of many tasks which the analysis by program of the Estimates government , the study of the various aspects of the policy foreign of the Canada , and more particularly of his policy commercial in reason of the importance increased that has took the trade international to the over of the last decade .
course , as the has said the Senator Murray , John was against the Agreement of free - Exchange .
I i that this was because that he was then part of the Opposition and that he wanted defend this Position knowing that we défendrions the Position while and that , in last analysis , this would the Canadians who trigger .
that could also be because that he people that the ALE not was not also good for we that the Covenant of the no , who just of be against by the Organization World of the trade .
what that he in be , this was the opportunity of acting debates to the Senate , comparable to , on the GST , but many more civilized that this last , I must the say .
, the Committee of the Finance national , we have covered of many issues , in particular the various aspects of the policy administrative government .
our study of the recommendation Royal me has left of the memories impérissables .
our savant colleague , John Stewart , an of the procedure Parliamentary , on which he has released a book in 1997 , with a malin happy to own of many witnesses in their the retranchements with his arguties legal .
they me were think to the over métaphysiques of the 16 century between the jésuites and the thomistes , between other , Suarez .
, about of philosophical , I must you attention , honourable senators , that not only our colleague is Dr. in right public and in studies government , but that he has also a control in Science policy and that he is a an internationalement recognized of David Hume .
he has released two literature on the writing of Hume .
I can you say that , after have read the biography of Hume , I have took conscience of many there between John and this great author écossais : the love of the books , the more , the attrait of the solitude , a spirit sceptique but widest .
I me say sometimes that he is the Montesquieu of the Nova - Nova .
the heroes was a good friend of Balzile Smith , well that I not think not that John has in also high believe that I .
back - in to David Hume .
he the is of a publication semestrielle that the as of the philosophical university feel our .
in this group auguste of brilliant academic , I must you say that our colleague is considered as a great priest .
in November 1995 , we have had right to a analysis criticism of the second thing on Hume .
John has defended with gracefully his way be that Hume be the precursor of the tradition Liberal British and not of the tradition conservatrice .
the a of his criticism , Douglas Plain , has wrote :
John B . Stewart the is revealed be a time of more a mechanization of the foundation Hume seriously , calculated and sensitive .
I me incline before a such variety of talents or commonality who allows to our Senator of from of the theory policy to the practice policy .
after all , he has was elected three time and and , he not is not simply a excellent spirit there , but a historian appropriate of the the centuries of the life policy British .
in as that chairman of the Committee of the Affairs foreign , he has known do lead our studies of questions important who have of place to of many proposals appropriate , that we , for this who is of guide the direction international of our country .
our last report on the impact of the Union European on the Canada , who was on to , that we had product he there has few years , is a excellent example of that .
the next report that he has led to as of chairman , on the NATO and the Canada , should also as of pride all the senators opposite - to - opposite of the work of this Committee .
during any his career policy , John has fought for the interests legitimate of the people of the Maritimes .
I hope that he will we leave for go live a great retirement pleased , but I am sure that he not has not still wrote the last book .
I him wish a life prosperous through to his rights of author , all as the famous predecessor British .
the hon. Marie - P .
Poulin :
honourable senators , to the over of the 132 years who the are period since the Confederation , of many eminent Canadians have sat in this chamber .
their knowledge , their wisdom , their perception and their coolness have contributed widely to the good conduct of the Affairs of our country .
we know that we have among we a Canadian extremely respected , the Senator John B . Stewart , who can in any legitimacy the join to the panthéon of these great géants of the Senate that are the honourable Eugene Forsey , Raoul Dandurand , Gordon McQueen Fergusson , an Wilson , Chubby Power , Duff Roblin and Arthur Meighen .
they have all made a contribution all to fact remarkable , as all historian or observer of the Senate can in testify .
the contribution of the Senator Stewart since his appointment to the Senate he there has 15 years will was the spirit pénétrant and his extensive knowledge , who him will spent a reputation uncommon among his colleagues .
this is a reputation who has débordé the does of this chamber for the répandre until in the centres of decision of the country where his views on the Affairs foreign , the Banking , the trade and the fisheries have of the negative .
and as the know all those who have was " in a debate with him , his very great eloquence is a weapon divide .
the Senator Stewart not is no were to the overstating or to the grandiloquence .
this is a I , a man dignified and sophisticated , a " an man " as be said already .
his views are always équilibrées , a quality of uniqueness who is very appréciée in , who give the opinion , and I have had the privilege of the see often .
this politician , professor and writer has fact honour to our institution .
this is a loss for we and for the country that the time be come for him of leave the Senate .
his ideas and the action we will enormous , and that his good advice .
I wish to our friend all this that he there has of better in this new step of his life .
the hon. Norman K . Atkins :
the week next , we retirees tribute to the Senator Derek Lewis , also of the Canada Atlantic .
even if we have and the opportunity of to point their accomplishments , as to the Senate that , , we are tristes to the idea that all the two quitteront the Senate in the next days .
this is a loss real , as for we who remain that for the Senate in as that institution Parliamentary .
in participant to the committees and to the business of the Senate , these two senators have always succeeded to met the their of the debate , in Dolly to the questions to the study the perception and the wisdom learning to the long of their careers different .
we him are our best wish for his retirement .
as to the Senator John Stewart , who has represented to the House of the Commons the riding of Antigonish - Guysborough , in Nova - Nova , he is the only capita of the Nova - Nova who knows where the is Cook' s ; , where is unborn my great - father .
this is a banlieue of Guysborough .
the Senator Stewart is a university , a author and a an of the parliamentary .
before my arrived to the Senate , I knew the Senator Stewart only of reputation , by his business to the House of the Commons and by those who dictatorial his business academic .
but , when I am became member of the Committee Senate of the Affairs foreign , I have was capacity of admiration before his knowledge and the accuracy in as that chairman of the Committee .
those who have trend to demean our institutions government have interest to study the work of the Senator Stewart as here that to the other place .
he has always considered as very important the role of the Parliament in the society Canadian , all as he was for essential the process parliamentarians , the role of a Opposition raisonnée and the held of good debates .
and this was the case little any who had the speak if the about that he entendait were endowment .
that the said , he not has never dérogé to the discipline of party , this who fact of him a good Liberal .
in addition , he not has almost never missed a Senate since his appointment .
the Senator Stewart with his responsibilities very to the seriously .
this will difficult of not more the see in opposite of I and of having his long for that of the points , good and bad , will raised in this Room .
the hon. Joyce Fairbairn :
honourable senators , today today , we say Adieu to the a of the parliamentarians the more eminent and the more dedicated that I one had the honour of know since 37 years .
as he has was agreed today today , the Senate perdra the a of his members the more outstanding when the Senator John Stewart will his retirement tomorrow .
for we , of this side - this of the chamber , he is well close of be irremplaçable .
the Senator Stewart has spent his life to the learning , to the education and to the service public in his province , the Nova - Nova , and including to the St. Francis Xavier , in his great city native of Antigonish .
he has was a partisan and the conscience of the Party Liberal of the Nova - Nova and of the Party Liberal of the Canada .
he is was in policy federal in 1962 in quality of member Liberal of Antigonish - Guysborough , as that he has served for three mandates .
this is during this period - I was then a young journalist Parliamentary - that I the have known .
the Senator Stewart we has fact benefit of the expertise with wisdom and judgment .
I know that the senators of this side - this the ennuieront seriously of his advice .
this could well be a day there for the Senator Stewart .
the Senator Murray him has offered a as perpétuel .
however , I the urge to reflect seriously to this proposal because that he could probably to a small fortune in lone drafts in procedure Parliamentary .
the leadership which he has fact evidence to the Committee of the Affairs foreign has was " cool " and " an " , as say the young .
the Senator Stewart has had a great influence on many of between we .
I have lived a time coast after the election of 1988 , when the Senator Stewart me has asked if I wanted to part of the Committee of the Affairs foreign .
I have then thought that I had really succeeded .
he me is then wished that I not devais serve that for the break of the illiteracy for that we can respect our commitment of adopt the Agreement of free - Exchange before the 1 January 1989 , to the case where our opposite - to - opposite déclencheraient of the election .
what that he in be , this period has was rich and challenged .
I in Access a excellent remember .
a time this chapter debated , I am manifestation to my duties normal to the Senate .
he me rest still to be called as member of this Committee mythique that is the Committee of the Affairs foreign .
I Access hope of there can .
I like me stop a moment to this that the Senator Stewart has accomplished to the within of this Committee .
, the over of a decade agitée by of the regroupements commercial international changeants , by of the perturbations financial and trade victimized in different regions of the world and to of the impact to the Canada and by a increase unfortunately too due of the number of the conflict military a , the Senator Stewart has led the Committee in of the studies offended and depth who have served to the making and to the leaders political of the Canada and of , , when they have had the intellect of read the reports or the in are of the only .
he not fact no doubt that John Stewart the is deep personally and with energy to define a Position realistic before our concern Increase for the peace in the context present who , as he the has said in a of his first interventions to the Senate , parliament sometimes to we lasser and to we accepting of continue of we fight for our because .
then that he spoke in favour of the creation of the Institute Canadian for the peace and the security international , in June 1984 , he we has exhortés to " concerning the blue of the at and of the cynicism " .
he has décrié those who not parlaient that of the " problem of the peace " .
in him saying to the so today today , I like read a short which of the speech that he has by then , who encourage the Canadians to continue their efforts , each to his way , to of sauvegarder the optimism as to the peace World .
is this that said John Stewart the 28 June 1984 in this House :
as the said the old proverbe , he must have a we Increase for preserve the freedom .
we must to on our not , replicating the same things , we supplying we - same and supplying the new generations to the as and to legislation that they come .
this repetition not must not we to believe that we not accomplissions nothing .
each day that the peace is grew , we have accomplished someone something and we must adopt of new ' to legislation that the situation changing .
honourable senators , of the words of this such are part of the heritage that we it John Stewart , as the work that he has accomplished in this House , to the Parliament , for the Canada and for the world around .
I am personally sad of the see from .
this is a good friend since very long .
the support effacing and constant , when I was Leader of the government to the Senate , was generous and well full .
I not would could chamber this task without him .
I him wish a good health and of the happiness then that he not to his province adorée and to Antigonish .
John , going to speak and to write .
you me missed , to I , to my husband Mike and to Bessie .
the hon. A . Raynell Andreychuk :
honourable senators , this is a real privilege of take the speak to the opportunity of the departure to the retirement of the Senator Stewart .
those who have known the Senator Stewart many more long that I him have already record tribute .
I like when even share some thoughts with my colleagues .
however , this is also the Senator Stewart who we has learned that the Parliament , this is more that of the speech éloquents , this is the ability of bring between we , of we for of the questions , of in come to of the consensus and of find of the settlements of agreement .
I to the thank of me have unequal that he not there has not that my skills who rely , he there has also my ability of listen the other .
in the interest national , we must attempt of find of the settlements of agreement .
since my arrived to the Senate , I have had the honour of sit to the Committee of the Affairs foreign and of in with the as of vice - chairman .
let - I of paraphrasing , well piètrement I me in apologize , this that the Senator Stewart has said to our Committee .
the most of the senators the this to the Committee in be to point their own point of view .
as he the said , of the senior of our own piédestal , we want all dominer , with our contemporaries , our ideas , our philosophical and our objectives .
he responsibility to the chairman of find the way of meet all these elements disparates and of the convince of insist their efforts .
the Senator Stewart has certainly was in legislation of met this challenge to the Committee of the Affairs foreign .
we not were not easy .
we had all of the opinions well opinionated .
the Senator Stewart we has certainly all of the possible of take the speak and of to point our point of view .
he had the more great quality that a chairman can have : he was fair - fair to the regard of all the members of the Committee , to the regard of the question and to the regard of the responsibilities of the Senate .
he has made to the Committee this that I chéris the more , to know a allure independent .
about six months after my arrived here , then that I déployais any my eloquence on a point or on a other , a Senator has fully that be not the concern not because that I was a independent .
and that not the wanted not of the all a compliment .
each time that I have took the speak on a question , however , I have had the sense that the Senator Stewart we encouraged to more of raffinement and of reflection in the study of the questions which we were before .
he had the don of we remind to the order of time to other .
more often that other , he had the don of we have to work a little better and a little more very to the Committee .
as the Senator Bolduc the has said , our reports are éloquents .
they have was internally by of the representatives of sectors important , sometimes by of the people of the government , sometimes by of the people of the governments of other country , and always by those who examining the questions of policy foreign .
in the work , the Senator Stewart the is always served of the charm and of the spirit and has always shown a desire sincere of to current the Affairs of the Senate .
more often that other , when the other out the head , the Senator Stewart was able of keep the at and of act in gentleman .
the ability of keep the test and his civility and of ensure the good been of the process are the more great leaving that be can have .
Senator Stewart , I you thank for all your years to the head of the Committee of the Affairs foreign .
I you thank for the things that you we have enseignées .
of other senators have spoke enough at of your abilities for the education , then I not me will not on this point .
however , I sharing certainly their point of view .
I hope that the Senator Stewart continue of follow of close our work .
I hope that he continue of the otherwise in the community university and the community policy and , particularly , I hope that he continue to own the Canadians to to the levels of curiosity and of excellence that he has suffering in this chamber .
the hon. Peter A . Stollery :
honourable senators , this is a time that I have appréhendé - the retirement of the Senator John Stewart .
I not knew not the Senator Stewart before the arrived to the Senate , in 1984 .
someone a has spoke of the respect of the Senator Stewart for the leaders parliamentarians .
I understand that .
we have about that , since 1984 , we have of the governments specialty .
the Senator Stewart has was elected by a low majority in three Parliaments where the government was minority .
I have also was elected in two Parliaments where the government was minority .
in this would , be appreciate the responsibility of the Leader Parliamentary .
I have always had a great admiration for the Senator MacEachen and , when I have fact the knowledge of the Senator Stewart , in 1984 , I am became a fervent admirer of this last .
he has made a contribution enormous to the Committee of the Affairs foreign , which I am member since that we have " our hearings on the Agreement of free - Exchange , in 1986 .
the Committee the is met very frequently , and the Senator Stewart in is became the chairman .
he is all simply impossible of explain to what point the Senator Stewart has had a impact on our Committee .
honourable senators , the Senator Stewart is a wonderful professor .
the people who the have known before I we the have said .
however , I who have fact the knowledge of the Senator Stewart here , to the Senate , I can now say that he is , of the least to my be , the more great professor that he me has never was of of meet .
he we has unequal how deal the Affairs public .
he has of great fight and of great principles .
of more in more , to legislation that we vieillissons all , we we interrogeons on the fight and the principles .
when be meeting a human as the Senator Stewart , the experience is very stimulante .
he is can - be politologue , but he is also philosopher .
this not is not a accident the he affectionne all particularly David Hume .
he sharing the same values that him .
he has fact a contribution incommensurable to our Committee of the Affairs foreign , who has prepared of excellent reports under his Speaker .
our challenge is now to maintain this level of excellence .
the hon. Gerald J . Comeau :
this was the first time that I votais to of the election federal .
I not should not by for what party I have voted , but I think that the Senator Stewart me pardonnera of have voted for Louis Comeau , who was candidate of the Party Progressive - Conservative to the time .
in fact , I believe that the Senator Stewart me has pardonné that in several opportunities .
my purpose not was not of record a election held he there has 31 years , but of to know that I would well loved that we horses of a little more of time for dies the Committee Senate Standing of the fisheries for be in legislation of deal that the speech of uttered that we take address to the Senator Stewart , because he in has was a member very active .
, the behalf of the members of the Committee of the fisheries , I the thank of the way which he has contributed to the regulation of the issues complex on which we have had to we with to the over of the years .
his magnificent capabilities of research , his knowledge depth and the know - to him have spent the respect of the members of the Committee , of the witnesses and of the industry .
when he the did of the case eliminated , the Senator Stewart had the don of all streamline .
he was always prepared to we to on of his binge advice .
in my behalf staff and to the behalf of my colleagues , Senator Stewart , I wish to say that you we missed .
you have was for we all a very good professor .
the hon. Anne C . Cools :
honourable senators , for all these things who are honourable , them and about , I like to rereading the words who have was given today today to the place of the Senator John Stewart .
my seat of Chair , the Senator Watt , and I - even have was Connolly the even day , in January 1984 .
this is to this opportunity that I have met the Senator John Stewart .
be can say that in large , we are upon all in even time .
Senator Stewart , I have read of your books .
I have recently debated your last thing , , on David Hume .
I must however by that the Senator Stewart me in has offered a copy for the to forgive of have in for three years a other thing that I him had came .
in me appearing the book , he me has said that he not me would not pay of costs of gardiennage for the other .
the Senator Stewart has sat with I to different committees .
I me recall particularly of the time where he had replaced provisoirement a colleague to a Committee Special responsible of study the bill of bill C - 21 on the insurance - unemployment and where we had should we to to Canso , in Nova - Nova .
he must say to the Senator Murray and to the senators Conservatives of in opposite that in 1989 , during of this expenses particular in this region particular , we had rallié the opinion public and the media against this bill of bill .
honourable senators , the Nova - Nova John Stewart , of origin highland , and the Senator Allan J . MacEachen , also Nova - Nova and of origin highland , constituency to them two a presence with which he was be .
during of the campaign of obstruction seeing in 1990 in this chamber to the about of the tax on the products and services , they have fact weigh on the Senator Murray , Leader of the government , and a some other human of the Nova - Nova of origin highland all the negative of the myriad that they constituency .
honourable senators , Edward Blake on with of a great number for be the better of the lawyers to have sat to the Parliament Canadian , and Allan J . MacEachen , for be the better Parliamentary to have never served our country .
I like add that John Stewart has was recognize the more great I and philosopher to have never served the Canada .
the uniqueness over of his her intellect , the or of the spirit , the knowledge that he had of the operating of the Parliament , of the principles and of the moral have for to the Party Liberal of extension this period very painful and sometimes black from in the enough of the Opposition of 1984 to 1993 .
I like thank the Senator Stewart and him express of way poétique the affection and the respect special that I have for him .
since you are Nova - Nova , Senator Stewart , the " great lady of Canso " , as me has called a time the Senator MacEachen , you said : " Bon over Captain . "
some of between we , honourable senators , have attended he there has few years to the conference MacEachen to the St. Francis Xavier , to Antigonish , and have had the opportunity of to of close a institution where have was trained the more great of this country .
I like for complete you read a or of the Bible which this school has fact his " .
it is rid of the Épître to the Philippiens , chapter 4 , verset 8 :
, the rest , brothers , that all this who is true , all this who is hon. , all this who is fair , all this who is rejection , all this who is kind , all this who deserves the approval , this who is vertueux and dignified of louange , be the subject of your thoughts .
Senator Stewart , I you wish a excellent retirement .
I am with forward your next book on David Hume .
you quittez this place with of our deep respect and of any our affection .
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
I am came here he there has few weeks , to angry need of a mentor of the quality of the Senator Stewart .
he has was enough kind for me sponsor in this institution and the fact that he we leaving now , then that my education has to only began , will always for I a deep regret .
I must you say that this not is not the first time that that me so .
in 1962 , I am came to the St. Francis Xavier , to Antigonish , anxious of study the philosophical and the Science political and will without too there believe power become a student of John Stewart , the professor , a little as he there has few weeks .
unfortunately for I , little of time after my arrived to the university , he is party for met the challenge of the life policy and make a career all to fact proceed .
, this time - that , I have lost the opportunity of follow the interdependent of a officer .
honourable senators , I say that for a reason .
the Senator Stewart cannot that , in the culture and the tradition écossaises , the présages are part of the beliefs .
this are of the things who annoncent the events to come .
my arrived to the St. Francis Xavier in 1962 has was the sign , for the Senator Stewart , of the beginning of a new and proceed career , unfortunately for I .
I am sure that my arrived to the Senate , he there has few weeks , présage still a time a career new , Mentorship , important and proceed for him .
the hon. Catherine S . Callbeck :
honourable senators , I like me join to my colleagues for to tribute to the hon. Senator John Stewart .
I wish to out that I sharing of all heart the feelings who have was if eloquently views by good number of our colleagues this after - afternoon .
I not add that few words .
the Senator John Stewart has of the links very strong with the Island - Edward - Prince - Edward .
the father is unborn in my province and a good part of his family there ahead always .
well that the Senator Stewart not there be not unborn him - even , he there has lived for five years and I the consider therefore as a resident of the Island .
the home Stewart of the move Keppoch , close of Charlottetown , is now the ownership of the Dr. Colin McMillan , the brother of the hon. Tom McMillan , who has fact part of the cabinet of Brian Mulroney .
from I - even of the region Atlantic of the Canada , I must say that I am very sad of see the Senator Stewart we leave .
the experience , his knowledge in of many areas and the commitment opposite to the Canada Atlantic we will certainly many .
since my arrived to the Senate , he there has two years , I have often asked of the assistance and of the advice to the Senator Stewart .
I like the thank publicly today today for all this that he has fact for I .
as someone a the has has here this after - afternoon , the Senator Stewart has left his in in this place and his presence and his interventions we will enormous .
however , I am sure that he continue of work for the better - be of all the Canadians .
Senator Stewart , I you greetings my best wishes to the opportunity of your retirement .
the hon. Léonce MLA :
during of the be , the other night , to the into of the Senate , of the price fabuleux and very senators of , have was distributed .
my three colleagues , the senators Bacon , Barth Ferretti and Maheu , were weakened to my table .
they regardaient of time to other the Senator Stewart .
I their have asked : " that is - this that you have to the look ? "
they me have said : «M. MLA , the Senator Stewart has the air more young that you . "
I am therefore indisposé for in speak .
I believe , honourable senators , that he would change a little the way of to the things to the opportunity of the departure of a Senator .
you not have not said still the better of this man .
that not has not of sense , this that you what .
I have a list of things that I will you say , of the these , not of the inventions .
that fact three years that I the know .
for conclusion these tributes well mérités today today , , who we leaving could propose the adjournment for that all the world parte in even time .
that will be difficult of the retremper knew .
be in the nostalgia .
be not has not the time of the say that a such has well spoke .
myriad the Gallery speech , be so to the period of the questions .
not have - you not thought that if the Senator Stewart the in will , I kids a vote ?
be should try of change our way of to for illustrious of manner important the departure of someone a .
when I Gerry the small school and that the inspecteur had we visit , he we give break .
be could to the even something to the Senate .
this that we have to the order of the day can expect to tomorrow or to Monday .
we not have nothing of terrible to hear today today , to least of me hear speak .
not oubliez not , Senator Stewart , of ask the adjournment .
I would forget of the things tremendous who me fascinent .
you have about , honourable senators , of say that this man has demonstrated the qualities necessary for be Senator , that he was a man gracious in his discussions and course as chairman of Committee .
he has fact opposite to of many challenges with distinction and in numbered a great sense of the responsibilities .
as Senator , he has helped to establish the reputation we of the Senate .
this man has dismantling the Senate as of other people the marqueront in the future .
for the three years to the over which I have had the opportunity of work with him , I have could appreciate his qualities of honesty , of sincerity and of respect to the other .
in his life personal as in his life professional , he has known gain the respect and the admiration of his colleagues and of his knowledge .
the Senator Stewart in of after the précepte " Nobody am not to is this that you not like not that be your it to you - even . "
is a excellent rule of life .
finally , on a note personal , I like congratulate the Senator of a something which of other could surely testify , to know the wonderful sense of the elegant , and I like that he me give the behalf of the tailleur before that he we leaving .
I know that I about to the behalf of all in saying that the Senate of the Canada loses today today a excellent representative .
his perception and his wisdom we will .
I you wish all the happiness possible .
the hon. John B . Stewart :
honourable senators , as the Senator Graham the has said , in 1962 , be me has guest to consider to obtain the nomination Liberal in the riding federal of Antigonish - Guysborough .
I not knew not how respond .
the member Progressive - Conservative of the time , ; O Leary , who became more later a member of our hon. House , was very esteemed .
of more , to side of the equipment policy of Stanfield , the " Big Blue Machine " of the Ontario had the air rather dépassée .
my opportunity of gain were very low .
finally , I have yielding to the resist .
I have justified my decision in me saying that in as that professor of Science political , he was of my duty of me start in this campaign as if I was a work of research university .
in end of that , I fus elected with a majority of 113 Senators .
I crunch a great part of my success - many more that these 113 Senators - to the work of Alasdair Graham .
I have then succeeded to me to elected in 1963 and in 1965 .
the spent of the as election before the election of 1968 has had for effect of fusionner the major part of the riding of Antigonish - Guysborough with the of Allan MacEachen .
I am therefore went they my opportunity in the riding of South West Scotia .
contrary to this who the was in the major part of the rest of the Canada , the Nova - Nova not were not Act by the Trudeaumanie during of these election .
still a time , we , the Liberal , were the fight Mr. Stanfield , the Leader of the time of the Party Progressive - Conservative .
Allan MacEachen was the only Liberal elected in our province .
after my defeat in South West Scotia , I am business place to the St. Francis Xavier .
since this was for I a business independent , I should speak a little of the results of my research .
that have - I learned to the House of the Commons ?
of first , I have learned to know the people of Antigonish and of Guysborough and I have learned many of things to the about of their wharves , of their brise - lames and , particularly , of the absolutely need of complete the business of dragage before the beginning of the season of the lobster earlier the spring .
second , I have learned what were the problems economic of the west of the Canada .
in January 1984 , I have was appointed to the Senate .
that have - I learned to the Senate ?
of first , I have learning a new respect for this House .
this not is not of the all a " club of the old " , as the dismiss some not and some journalists .
second , I have learned that the Senate can to a work legislative very important .
well of the members of the other place have little of time to spend to the bills of laws not controversés or think technical , and this is understandable .
by therefore , the work of the Senate complete , of the House of the Commons .
third , I have discovered the true value of the work of the committees .
the simple mention of the work of the committees me fact think to the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign .
the senators much often the importance of the reports of the committees ; however , I believe that we pass too little of attention to some of these reports in this House .
by example , our report on the Canada in Asia - Pacific has drew many of attention to the pushing and well little to the Senate even .
I hope that our report on the Europe awaited a debate here .
the second report , on the Canada and the - of the peace , should be prepared of here few weeks .
in this case , I am course that you discuterez firmly of the constations and of the recommendations of the Committee .
in fact , I hope that the report of the Committee you provoquera enough for an a such debate .
I wish to thank the Committee of the Banking and of the trade , and particularly the Senator Kirby , for all this that I have learned to as of member of this Committee .
he in will of even for the Committee of the fisheries , chaired by the Senator Comeau .
he there in has many of other to thank .
I refers Irene Duy , who has was my Secretary during almost all my years to the Senate .
no task not was never too difficult for it .
I am happy of the see with the husband to the gallery this after - afternoon .
David by has was my Researcher .
his knowledge and the work hard me have was indispensable , particularly in the framework of the business of the Committee of the Affairs foreign .
David Raynor , who is professor to the University of Ottawa and a parent of our former colleague Macquarrie Macquarrie , not has up of me remind all this that must to David Hume and Balzile Smith the political modern .
I wish to you say that I have began in the years 80 to write a book on Balzile Smith and that I have avid to a second book on David Hume .
the links are if friends between these two authors !
Smith the is seconded directly on the basis jetées by the predecessor little more old .
as be the has said without overstating in the before - about of the report that I have presented yesterday , the Committee the is many fié on the jurisdiction of Peter Berg , our Researcher .
in the case of the report on the - of the peace , Wolfgang Koerner not has not physically his efforts in trying with many of success of the to to the aware of all the new on the Kosovo , the Defence European , the NATO and the Nations Nations .
this as , proposed by the Senator Lynch - Lynch , the is proved be all to fact timely .
David Goetz we has drafting with his research outstanding on two questions : of a on , the intervention of the NATO in Yugoslavia without mandate of the Nations Nations and of other on , the role that the Parliament should play when the Canada at to of the missions of - of the peace .
three table have served the Committee to the over of the past years .
I about of Serge Pelletier , Line Gravel and Till Heyde .
here and to the abroad , they have was our Pilots about and shrewd .
all the people who have worked around of the Senate have played a role very useful , that he the whether of the Speaker , of the services of the Clerk , of the staff in General and , well heard , of our members of security .
our colleague , the Senator Fairbairn , has spoke of Bessie .
Bessie is a chienne an and I please the Senator Fairbairn of the saluting of my on .
I to thank all those of between you who me have record tribute here today today , and that all those who me have spoke in private .
you have our exaggeration my qualities and , by therefore , you have put the short very senior for I to the future .
I you thank rétrospectivement and of advance for all your good words .
of the Senators :
hear !
the Hon. the Speaker good tempore :
honourable senators , before of from to the Affairs offered of the day , I like benefit of this opportunity for you thank of the confidence that you me have granted in me him to this as .
I am very honoured and very affected .
with your cooperation and your cooperation , we will work in the better interest of the Senate .
I am some that we will all work together for the Senate in the respect and the dignity .
I wish good opportunity to the Senator Stewart .
' ' '
the Day national of the child
the hon. Catherine S . Callbeck :
in the last speech of the Throne , the government has took several commitments to the regard of the children of the Canada .
he there described seven initiatives specific who will of the priorities to the over of the five next years .
also important that be these seven initiatives , I me sense more particularly attirée by the a of between they , the who with the support to the development of the children for the small boyhood .
, the number of the great experts in the field of the development of the young child is the Dr. Fraser Mustard .
his business of research have shown that a intervention signal is essential to the development of the child the of that it to the basis to the for of the learning , of the behaviour and of the health for all the graduate of life .
his business have of birth to various programs in the field of the development of the young child across to the Canada .
I wish to to today today to your attention a of these programs , be the " combatants Alliance Initiative " of the Island - Edward - Prince - Edward .
this initiative community has was agreed in June 1998 by a group of citizens it .
it has of the groups and of the agencies government and not government who oeuvrent with of the young children and of their family .
be to the give a way of study the solutions possible and of the deal to the causes fundamental of the problems social eliminated who within the young children .
the Island - Edward - Prince - Edward ) by the through of this initiative a true role of Leader in the field .
a program precise record possible through to the support of the " combatants Alliance Initiative " is entitled : " Meilleur departure . "
this is a program intensif of selection and of visit to home for to to of the support to the children , of the birth until to the age of three years .
after the birth of their child , the parents of the region the e to the possible of participate volunteers to a process of assessment and of selection which the implementation in implement incombera to of the nurses in health public .
the families who will right to the support to home will directed to a officer of the program " Meilleur departure . "
this program is between other things to improve the operating of the family and to promote a interaction parent - child positive and that a healthy growth for the boyhood .
the program will s in June 2000 .
honourable senators , the children are our future and this year , to the opportunity of the Day national of the child , each community should the give as objective of to in so that the first years of the children be their best years .
if we want that the young Canadians the showing and reflect of the accomplishments for them , for the other and for the future , we must ensure to this that the programs as those who are ' of the before by the " combatants Alliance Initiative " among a priority national .
Mr. . Irwin Cotler
congratulations to the opportunity of the election as member of the riding of Les - Royal
the hon. Sheila Finestone :
honourable senators , I for today today my friend and colleague newly elected , the professor Irwin Cotler , Leader confirmed which the interventions and the about the day in the tradition , the history and the heritage of former leaders of the riding of Les - Royal as Pierre Elliott Trudeau and John Humphrey .
the rights of the human , the Charter Canadian of the rights and freedoms , the conventions international on the rights of the human and the rule of the right rate the quality of life in a country democratic .
these questions fundamental , and well of other , are a sense to the life of all the days and they characterize the activities of Irwin Cotler .
the behalf is known of all those who , to the Canada , held firmly to preserve our society democratic and our rights basic .
he is clear that a sense inné of justice is to the basic of the commitment to preserve these values .
as the has said to Position Presse Alan Dershowitz , professor to Harvard , in considering our new member of the Parliament :
he not the interest not to him .
he has travelled across in the world to his costs for defend of the men who , yesterday still , were in other for their opinions .
those - this him must a little of their freedom :
Nelson Mandela in Africa of the South , Anatoli Scharansky in Israel , Andreï Sakharov in Russia , the Nobel of literature Wole Soyinka to the heat , Jacobo Timmerman in America Latin and Muchtar Pakpahan in Asia .
he the has fact without never the interest to the money or to the publicity .
of after the words of Irwin Colter , the Prime professor and philosopher of right was the father , who him has always said that the any of the justice was the something the more important .
honourable senators , I believe that he has well control this philosophical .
the Hon. the Speaker good tempore :
I regret of duty interrupt the hon. Senator Finestone , but the time of speak is has .
let - you , honourable senators , to the hon. Senator of continue the speech ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator Finestone :
I thank the honourable senators .
the professor Irwin Cotler has profoundly dismantling the world of the rights of the human .
he is now time that he it benefit the Parliament of the sense of the equity , of his compassion and of his sollicitude for the constituents of Les - Royal and the citizens of the Canada and of the world .
that - with , honourable senators , I wish Mr. Cotler the welcome to the other place .
I know that he we will ample s to reflection and favorisera the diversity of the opinions .
Affairs routine
Banking and trade
Tabled of the Prime report of the Committee
the hon. Leo E . Kolber :
honourable senators , pursuant to the section 104 of the Rules of the Senate , I have the honour of table the Prime report of the Committee Senate Standing of the Banking and of the trade , who relates on the Estimates incurred by the Committee to the over of the first session of the Session Parliament .
( the text of the report is to the Journals of the Senate of today today . )
education post
Tabled of the Prime report of the Committee Special
the hon. M. DeWare :
honourable senators , pursuant to the section 104 of the Rules of the Senate , I have the honour of table the Prime report of the Committee sénatroial Special of the education post , who relates on the Estimates incurred by the Committee to the over of the first session of the Session Parliament .
( the text of the report is to the Journals of the Senate of today today . )
the adjournment
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the ( 58 ( 1 ) p.m. ) of the Rules , I move :
that , when the Senate the adjourns today today , this be until to the Tuesday 23 November 99 , to 14 p.m. .
the Hon. the Speaker good tempore :
leave granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
the Act on the divorce
bill of bill Amend - First Reading
the hon. Anne C . Cools its the bill of bill S - 12 , Act amend the Act on the divorce ( child to for ) .
( the bill of bill is read a first time . )
the Hon. the Speaker good tempore :
honourable senators , when read - we this bill of bill a second time ?
( on the motion of the Senator Cools , the second Reading of the bill of bill is placed to the order of the day of the Senate of the Tuesday 30 November 99 . )
Affairs Social , Science and Technology
notice of motion Motion the Committee to to the with Electronic
the hon. Sharon Carstairs :
honourable senators , I give notice , to the behalf of the Senator Kirby , that Tuesday next , the 23 November 99 , he will :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology be authorized to to the with of his deliberations public by the media of information electronic , in disruption the least possible his business .
notice of motion Motion the Committee to clerical of the services
the hon. Sharon Carstairs :
honourable senators , I give notice , to the behalf of the Senator Michael Kirby that , Tuesday next , the 23 November 99 , he will :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology be authorized to clerical the services of counsel , technical , employees of office or other elements necessary for to the bills of bill , the substance of bills of bill and the forecasts budget who him have was referred .
notice of motion Motion the Committee to to the facts new regarding the Suicide and the assistance to the suicide
the hon. Sharon Carstairs :
honourable senators , I give notice that , the Tuesday 23 November 99 , I move :
more particularly , that the Committee be authorized to to :
the legislation in which have was with in implement the recommendations unanimous made in the report ;
2 . - evolution to the Canada of the different questions scrutinized in the report ;
3 . - evolution to the abroad of the different questions scrutinized in the report .
that the Committee its the report final to the more later 6 June 2000 .
Banking and trade
notice of motion Motion the Committee to study the situation of the regime financial domestique and international
the hon. Leo E . Kolber :
honourable senators , I give notice that Tuesday next , the 23 November 99 , I move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Banking and of the trade be authorized to to , to of in to report , the situation current of the regime financial domestique and international ;
that the documents and evidence collected to this about to the over of the first session of the 30 - sixth Parliament and all other document Parliamentary and testimony relevant regarding obedience about be removed to this Committee ;
that the Committee be authorized to to the with of his deliberations public by the media of information electronic , in disruption the least possible his business ;
that notwithstanding the practices considered , the Committee be authorized to table a report interim on obedience about with of the Clerk of the Senate , if the Senate not seat not , and that obedience report be being have was tabled to the Senate ; and
that the Committee its the report final to the more later 31 December 2000 .
privileges , Rules and procedure
Authorized to the Committee of sit in even time that the Senate
the hon. Lucie pin :
honourable senators , to the behalf of the hon. Senator Austin , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the ( 58 ( 1 ) has ) of the Rules , I move :
that the Committee Standing of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure be authorized to sit to 16 p.m. 30 the duration , even if the Senate seat , of now to the end December 99 , to that the Committee can study the questions of privilege raised by the hon. Senator Andreychuk and the hon. Senator Kinsella , who have was déférées to the Committee ; and that the application of the paragraph 95 ( 4 ) of the Rules be suspended to this regard .
the Hon. the Speaker good tempore :
honourable senators , you pleasure - he of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
languages official
Authorized to the Committee Joint Standing of sit in even time that the Senate
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I to to a ask to the senators , relatively to the business of the Committee Joint Standing of the languages official .
the Hon. the Speaker good tempore is member of the Committee .
I its therefore the motion next in the behalf .
- honourable senators , to the behalf of the Senator Cool - Losier , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the ( 5 ( 1 ) has ) of the Rules , I move :
that the Committee Joint Standing of the languages official be authorized to sit for the sittings and the adjournments of the Senate and
that a message be sent to the House of the Commons for the in inform .
this Committee has traditionally sat even if the Senate sitting to the even time , and this motion is consistent to the use of the Senate .
in fact , the Committee has the intention of sit Tuesday next , before our Senate to this place .
that ask therefore why he must the with of this motion now .
the Hon. the Speaker good tempore :
the leave is - it granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
PERIOD PERIOD question
the Affairs foreign
the Sudan - Position participation of the society Talisman EnergyInc. - Position response to the criticism of the community international
the hon. Donald H . Oliver :
honourable senators , my question the is to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
I am sure that all the world knows the parabole of the poutre and of the paille .
the Canada the is fact the advocate of the well - be and of the security of the people across in the world .
the Minister of the Affairs External , Mr. Axworthy , is speedy to criticize the country foreign who not respect not the rights of the people .
yesterday , however , the 251 of state of the States - United has reversed the roles and has reducing criticized the Canada because that he continues of nothing with the Sudan by the through of the business oil Talisman EnergyInc. , of Calgary .
the Americans have also accused the government Liberal of have reversed to " the approach positive of the policy foreign in " clumsily the be " on the atrocities took by the regime of Khartoum " .
the 251 of state states that the activities of Talisman in the ways of canada of the Sudan are facilitées by the use of " " , of helicopters armed and of print of Surplus against of the Political not armed " by the government of Khartoum .
the Americans are that the investment of Talisman in the sector pétrolier of the Sudan encouragent the regime fondamentaliste of Khartoum to continue the War civil in the south of the country .
until to now , the government of the Canada not has not still ordered to Talisman of the withdraw of the Sudan and not has not imposed of sanctions to this country in despite of the pressure orchestrated since a year on the Minister Canadian of the Affairs foreign by of the NGOs Canadian and international of even that by the Coalition inter - Églises on the Africa .
in fact , Mr. Axworthy just all fair of accept of send a mission of inquiry to the Sudan .
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , this question has was scope to the attention of the government of the Canada , and more specifically of the Minister appropriate .
it is taken very to the seriously .
the reports by a link between the business privacy Canadian having by the Senator and of the abuses présumées of the rights of the human and of the right international create of serious concerns .
as the hon. Senator the has has , the Minister of the Affairs foreign has sent a commission Canadian independent to the Sudan for whether the he there has of the links between the abuses of the rights of the human and the business in because .
a report him will presented and he will the measures who the do after in have took knowledge .
the Sudan - Position participation of the society Talisman EnergyInc. - Position policy of the government on the Opposition between the plateforme of the security human and the interests of the investors
the hon. Donald H . Oliver :
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , the question that the be must the for in the here , this is the of know if this business privacy Canadian impropriety the rights of the human and the right international .
if this is the case , the government of the Canada could then consider of the sanctions economic and trade relatively to this activity .
as in witnessing the measures that he has already taken , he is clear that the Minister is very " and that he Glenney rapid as that he will in with the report of this commission independent .
the trade international
the Agreement of free - Exchange North - American - - proceedings his by a society Processors in make of the loss of a contract of Purchase of water in vrac - Position Position of the government
the hon. Mira Spivak :
honourable senators , I have a question to for to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
I believe know that a small business Processors called Sunbelt has his a proceedings in damage - interests of about 10,5 billion of $ against the government federal for the cancellation of a contract by the government of the British - British in view of the Purchase of water in vrac .
Sunbelt based the action on the provisions of the NAFTA regarding the rights of the investors and the treatment national - this is - to - say the rights tremendous of the investors - and ask of the damage - interests not only for the profits perdus , but also for the lack to gain .
course , this action not will not heard by a court plain , but by a group of expert responsible of the regulation of the differences .
that given of a decision recent of a group of expert of the NAFTA in a case origins a society American to the government mexicain and regarding also the rights tremendous of the investors , the government Canadian is - he prepared to the defend until to the across against this action of Sunbelt ?
I with this question because that , in the with case of the MMT , the government has capitulé before Ethyl Corporation and agreed of him would 20 million of $ .
the because not has never was heard and the government has concédé that Ethyl Corporation had right to this compensation .
can - you we say if the government is prepared to go until to the across in this case , that given of this precedent ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , clearly , the fact that this question be Before to a group Special of regulation of the differences seems significant a some controversy .
I in will to the Minister for know where in are the things .
I remind that if the case is in decision before a court or a group Special of regulation of the differences , the response risk of be very brief .
the Senator Spivak :
honourable senators , this case is before a group responsible of the regulation of the differences in s of trade international .
he not the is not of hearings public and the procedure not is not transparent .
the people to the Canada not know nothing of this who the on .
this is a case of a great interest for the public .
this is why I with the question here .
the former Minister of the Trade international , Sergio Marchi , has all fact for to the process of regulation of the differences more transparent .
he is important that the Canadians know if , in this case , the rights of the investors American just before those of the Canadians and if the government will be forced of would of the damage - interests not only for the profits perdus , but also for the lack to gain .
this is a case extremely important .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , the question fundamental , this is the Position of the government to the regard of the export of the water in major amount .
I there that the hon. Senator does fully this Position , to know that this country not should not flair the water in major amount .
we have fact of great progress in this field and I am course that the hon. Senator in agree .
this case particular which about the Senator Spivak can be the a of the results of this progress .
however , I know the he would course to this at - this of discuss in detail of the strategy of the government and of the measures that he could take relatively to a case particular in which a business American written of great are .
the policy of the government regarding the Defence against of the proceedings class by of the companies
the hon. Mira Spivak :
honourable senators , if this is and and if the Leader not can dévoiler of details , he is important of know if , in this case - this , the government is prepared to follow the regulation of the differences .
this Intelligence can certainly be record public .
I hope that the government not règlera not to the secrecy with the society , as he the has fact in the case of the MMT .
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I am sure that the government of the Canada will all to fact prepared to protect our interests on the notice of his counsel .
I know what measures specific he will take .
he not is not indicated of to know his Position for the moment .
he is clear that , in this who with the question of principle , the government has adopted a Position firm to the regard of the export of water in major amount .
the government federal has from the cooperation of the provinces to this regard .
we are cent to a policy national that we défendrons by all the means appropriate .
the government will well the to .
the business of the sénat
use to the Rules
the hon. ë A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I rise for ensure a some certainty in our procedures .
the paragraph 56 ( 3 ) of the Rules of the Senate relates on the question of the notice to give and said this :
the notice 6 here can be tabled by a Senator to the behalf of a other Senator ...
the Senator Hays has of notice of a motion to the behalf of the Speaker good tempore .
the paragraph 56 ( 3 ) specific that a Senator can act to the behalf of a other Senator absent , with the leave of this last .
the paragraph 55 ( 3 ) for that when the Speaker wish participate to the debate , he must leave the Chair and invite a other Senator to chairman the Senate .
the Senator who is also the Speaker can then participate fully to the debate as all other Senator .
I think that the even something the applies to the Speaker good tempore .
for deal this case properly , he would was that her the Speaker good tempore leaving the Chair and that a other Senator the ' , pursuant to this that for the paragraph 56 ( 3 ) and to the logical of the interventions such that it is being in the section 55 of the Rules .
we must respect this that has said the Speaker yesterday .
I not contesterai not the would of the procedure followed , but to the future , he would can - be the with to the Rules .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I thank the Leader Deputy of the Opposition of have raised the question .
I must recognize that I not have not asked the leave of propose the motion pursuant to the Rules but , to the listen , I conclude that he has reason if I have proposed the motion to the behalf of the Speaker good tempore .
I have tried of explain the reason for which I have presented the motion , to know that it was on to a ask of the Speaker good tempore , this who not would can - be not should be mentioned .
I should to the that record for see this that I have said exactly .
what that he in be , my intention was of ask the leave and of propose the motion I - even .
I not am not member of the Committee Joint and I have indeed mentioned the Speaker good tempore , who in is member .
I believe know that the first meeting will place Tuesday next , of where this initiative .
I before that the about of the Senator Kinsella and I not bring not of me in remind to the future .
I the thank of not not rise of objection or of not not refuse the leave , this who facilitera course the work of the Committee .
order DAY THE
bill of bill on the protection of the information personal and the documents electronic
second Reading - Continued of the debate
the order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Kirby , seconded by the hon. Senator Lewis , Honourable to the second Reading of the bill of bill C - 6 , Act to to facilitate and to promote the trade Electronic in perpetuate the information personal collected , used or releases in some circumstances , in for the use of means electronic for bring or like of the information and of the transactions and in amend the Act on the evidence to the Canada , the Act on the were regulatory and the Act on the review of the laws .
the hon. Donald H . Oliver :
honourable senators , the trade Electronic is a question who me interest to the more senior point .
I am therefore very happy of take on to the debate on the bill of bill C - 6 , Act on the protection of the information personal and the documents electronic .
this initiative is to protect the uniqueness private of the information personal collected , used or releases by some agencies Canadian in the framework of activities trade .
it states also of the criteria for a signing Electronic sécurisée to the for of the transactions electronic treaties with the government and specific how the courts will authentifier the documents electronic admitted in evidence .
the Canada has a need pressing of this bill for ensure the success of his participation to the economy World of the know , a economy in full by who , to the say of the expert in the s , must detonated in least of a year .
the at , as the said the Senator Murray , is that the bill of bill C - 6 not is not to the up .
the wording parliament to would the confusion in the spirit and there of very serious are .
he not is not sure that he can protect effectively the life privacy of the Canadians all in oriented the success of their participation to the trade Electronic international .
this is that a uncertainty which the Canada not has not the means the he that as the advantage in s of competition in the economy World .
the bill of bill C - 6 is the implement of a government which the temporisation the for today today to develop to any memories of the were of bill for protect the Canadians in the context of the expansion next of the trade Electronic .
the government has left traîner the things and must to this up his two major partners commercial , the States - United and the Union European , who the are already assigned of the instruments schemes necessary in s of trade Electronic and of protection of the life privacy .
we know all that be unless that the trade Electronic will change the manner which the Canada slow the Affairs .
our country is a Leader world in s of Technology of the information .
however , the statistics fell that the businesses of the country seem hesitate to use this powerful drives economic that is the trade Electronic .
of after a study seeing by Angus Reid , to the spring last , the businesses Canadian have was lentes to operating the opportunities of the trade Electronic , well that 12,9 million of Canadians be cool . - inquiry
as that , well that 90 per of the buyers in line Canadian are was their sites , only 38p. per adequacy really of the transactions in line with of the companies Canadian .
that we brings to we ask what are the companies who terms profit of the power of Purchase of the 62p. per of buyers in line Canadian group and in what country they the find .
contrary to their Provincial Canadian , the businesses U.S. have known before the desirability of the revolution of the trade Electronic .
the small companies spécialisées and the géants of the industry such that Procter & Farmers , by example , factories of the initiatives trade important who are Canada to use the Technology of the trade Electronic for optimiser the services proposed to the consumers .
compared , the businesses Canadian are very in behind by report to the businesses U.S. in this field .
this imbalance could give to the States - United , our Main partner commercial and competition economic , the monopoly of the trade Electronic when this last the functions really to the Canada .
we there of losing of great income to the profit of our competitors American in reason of the consuming of the reaction of the sector private and of the government .
the bill of bill C - 6 , in his form current , not will that only the situation and I will explain why .
this bill of bill CRTC of way excessive the activities legitimate of the small and medium businesses and establishes a new framework regulatory flourish , without that be has realized of study of the impact of the costs .
he it also présager a new series of are federal - provincial , because the governments of the Quebec and of the Ontario the there opposed .
a other problem is with to the fact that the bill of bill C - 6 the applies to of the agencies commercial , but be not knows too the he the applies to of the agencies without purpose profit or to of the professions as those of the right and of the medicine .
by example , be not knows not specifically if this legislation legislative could the apply to the issues of a doctor .
this not are that that few - few of the reasons for which the bill of bill C - 6 , the he is adopted in his Presented current , could entraver seriously the initiatives of the businesses Canadian in s of trade Electronic .
if this bill of bill there to limit the by of the trade Electronic in the sector private to the Canada , he is possible that he being to of the businesses foreign of the give a important advantage competitive in we .
the nature even of the trade Electronic allows to of the businesses foreign of 8.4 to our regulations federal and provincial all in conservant the ability of from party of transactions financial with of the clients Canadian .
this situation could have of the effects devastating on the sector private , the economy and , in across of n , the consumers of the Canada .
the logical of the Senator Murray me has sure that the bill of bill C - 6 1 guarantee to two bills of bill in a .
the problems part 1 of this bill of bill , who protects the information personal collected in the framework of all type of activity commercial 1 to a principle or to a purpose .
the parties 2 to 5 have with to the validation of the documents and process electronic in under of the Act on the evidence to the Canada , of the Act on the were regulatory and of the Act on the review of the laws and are axées on a all other principle .
that I , affected in two the bill of bill C - 6 would the honourable senators and the Committee in the study of the document and , this by , their would of the delivering to a review distinct and in full of the two themes and principles that the be ' in this bill of bill .
the parties 2 to 5 have was examined quickly and almost studiously to the House of the Commons in reason of the debate been in response to the part 1 .
the Senate has now the opportunity of the delivering to a analysis careful of the applicability of these sections innovative proposed who will to the implementation in place of the trade Electronic to the country and of legislation a status legal clear to some documents electronic .
he is important that the Committee has the opportunity of study carefully these sections .
this legislation legislative the fact expect since long and must be agreed of any emergency .
in this who with the part 1 , all the aspects of the provisions of the bill of bill regarding the protection of the life privacy must be analyzed in full .
the Committee not should not feel that be the press of do the study , little any the speed with which the government can wish that the bill of bill franchisse the step of the Senate .
the protection of the life privacy is a right basic of all the Canadians and a legislation legislative the is certainly in this field .
, the over of the last session of the Parliament , the Committee Standing of the industry of the House of the Commons has at examined the bill of bill C - 54 , the predecessor of , - this .
he has heard the evidence of a great number of citizens , of expert and of agencies concerned , who have spoke of the importance of we stop of a bill strong and effective for protect the information personal and for promote the trade Electronic to the Canada .
among these groups the were of the representatives of the Association medical Canadian , who the are contrary to the bill of bill because that he was to regulate the use and the communication of information to of the for trade and that he walked of have of the consequences negative for the care of health and the system of health .
recently , of other associations in care of the health and professionals of the health have phoned , wrote , and advocates of the from by mail Electronic and by monitored to my office for express their concerns to the about of the bill of bill C - 6 .
the representatives of the Association dental Canadian me have informed that this bill of bill :
they have asked that the Senate ruined for clarify and strengthen the provisions of the bill of bill who them on the information personal in s of health .
the Dr. David Zitner , steering of the technology medical to my former alma mater , the University Dalhousie , to Halifax , has release with I for me speak clear of this aspect .
he has said :
, the Canada , the tradition to that be using of the information personal for the well public ( with of the mechanisms appropriate for protect the life privacy and ensure the confidentiality ) .
the activities of census are a example where of the people can be forced of provide of the information personal in the interest public .
the Dr. Zitner believes vital that a bill appropriate it in so that the agencies of the health , the governments and the instituts of research can use the information collected for the delivering to of the activities of research in health and of improvement of the quality of the care , in significant of mechanisms appropriate for ensure the protection , the security and the confidentiality of these information personal .
that means that the agencies of research and the institutions of health could use a bloc of information and write of the reports in make .
the Association of the Society Canadian is also préoccupée by the bill of bill C - 6 .
in his Presented to the Committee of the industry of the House of the Commons , it has said that the part 1 omissions three major problems .
first , the structure of the part 1 is unusual in right Canadian and not give not really of good results .
the standard has volunteers was designed as a series of lines guidelines that a organization must to in application and not as a Code juridiquement order who creates of the rights and of the devoirs precise .
second , the bar has seen a net possible for that the role and the responsibilities of the Commissioner to the protection of the life privacy which some difficulties on the plan of the procedure .
for can to the balance wanted between the rights of the human and the development of the trade Electronic , the government must ensure to this that the authority public responsible of the enforcement of the part 1 has all the resources necessary for to the work effectively .
by , , for ensure the protection of the life privacy of the people he not must not use of the means who their the right of the organizations and of their employees to the confidentiality because this would that a use brings of his own rights procéduraux and the bill appear unfair .
the Committee Senate has therefore many of work rectificatif to to for clarify this awful .
third , the Association of the Society has said that the bill of bill raised of the questions with the Constitution , for this who is of the Division of the powers between the governments federal and provincial , and the Charter Canadian of the rights and freedoms .
the bill of bill is so ambigu that the Society Canadian not could say categorically if the government federal réussirait to exercise his powers if the legislation New in effect .
, the across of the that , the association doutait that the bill of bill stream to a challenge judicial .
that the Position finally agreed by the Society , the difficulties that raises the part 1 , regarding the structure , the procedures and the Constitution , must be corrigées before the into in effect of the bill of bill , because that they into of resulting of the problems of interpretation who finiront by undermine the importance of this legislation .
honourable senators , he must absolutely that we , in this House of reflection , surmontions the barrier and hear this that the government not has not fact - correct the weaknesses of the bill of bill C - 6 .
we not can more we pay the luxury of expect .
the price to pay for the attentisme or the procrastination in this who with the implementation in implement of a bill on the trade Electronic is too high .
this trade is in expansion and the Canada not can the to of not not be prepared .
he wanted exchange on the about , to as of Canadian of the region Atlantic and of vice - chairman of the and of the Information Quarterly held , or ITI , a of the centres of training in Technology of the information the more prestigious in America of the North for the graduates academic .
Mr. . Cameron me has said that the drain to the States - United of Canadians to a strong training university is is and well real and that he is to the increase in the sector of the Technology of the information .
this situation is become for him a source of dilemma staff .
in as that enseignant , Mr. Cameron is happy of see that of the businesses of high Technology the tears his students and their may of the jobs enthousiasmants , assortis of excellent salaries .
in as that Canadian and taxpayer Canadian , he not is not also happy of see that the majority of the businesses who recrutent his students are of the companies U.S. .
the businesses U.S. are so empressées of would the more great number possible of graduates in Technology of the information that some have even began to to of the jobs to of the students of the ITI before even that they have debated their training .
I have noticed the malaise grew Mr. Cameron having by report to the fact that a number growing of students of the ITI who have around their studies on the trade Electronic are now courtisés been by several companies U.S. .
a time that they have from their had , he is rare that these students have in our country , and Cameron think that we have already lost , to the profit of the States - United , a number important of experts in trade Electronic who have received their training to the Canada .
the States - United have already a length of advance on we in the development and the implementation in implement of strategies before to of from profit of the economy World new on the know .
the response shy of the sector private Canadian to the regard of the trade Electronic , conjuguée to the political government inquiries on the plan tax and by report to the would of the loans students , plays in favour of the businesses U.S. .
we not are not on a at of equality with the Americans , and he we will very difficult of support their competition in the field of the trade Electronic .
the bill of bill C - 6 , who the based of the blundering implementation in implement by the Union European and who will to the with of the approach American current , not will that empirer the things .
he must adopt a bill of bill who plan the information personal if we want that the public accept the idea of the trade Electronic .
the Adopted of this bill of bill is also necessary for to to this new drives economic of succeed to the has national and international .
the bill of bill C - 6 not we will not of to these objectives .
honourable senators , we not can all simply not we to of adopt the bill of bill C - 6 such that he is some to the hour current .
we have here the opportunity of original this bill of bill to that he protects the life privacy of the Canadians all in can to the sector private of vibrant and of remain canada by report to our Main partner commercial , well course , but also to the has World .
( on the motion of the Senator Kinsella , to the behalf of the Senator Keon , the debate is adjourned . )
the Act on the Defence national Position Act on the identification by the fingerprints génétiques - Code criminal
bill of bill Amend - Second Reading
the order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Fraser , seconded by the hon. Senator Ruck , Honourable to the second Reading of the bill of bill S - 10 , Act amend the Act on the Defence national , the Act on the identification by the fingerprints génétiques and the Code criminal .
the hon. Pierre Claude Nolin :
honourable senators , before of planned my speech , I like thank the Solicitor General of the Canada for have given that of the points that I have raised during of the study of the bills of laws C - 25 , Act amend the Act on the Defence national and of other laws in make , and of the bill of bill C - 3 , Act regarding the identification by the fingerprints génétiques and amend the Code criminal and of other laws in make for the development of the bill of bill S - 10 .
these bills of bill have was adopted during of the first session of the 30 - sixth Parliament .
I am happy of see that the Minister has also took in consideration the recommendations of the sixteenth report of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional on the bill of bill C - 3 , in this who has with to the changes to to to the laws for to the management of the bank national of data génétiques more effective and more respectueuse of the right to the life privacy of the Canadians .
honourable senators , he me fact happy today today of speak in favour of the bill of bill S - 10 , Act amend the Act on the Defence national , the Act regarding the identification by the fingerprints génétiques and the Code criminal .
he has for purpose of include in the bank national of data génétiques , who has was created by the Adopted of the bill of bill C - 3 , in December 1998 , the profiles of identification was of the offenders burdened in under of the system of justice military .
as you the know , currently , the provisions of the bill not with that the offenders who will burdened by the system of courts Political .
since the introduction to the Canada in 1988 , the analysis of the ADN to of the for médico - legal has for of obtain the condemnation of authors of some crimes violent , and that the been in freedom of people condamnées to wrong by the courts .
the use of this instrument powerful in the framework of investigation criminal the is made in two steps .
first , in 1995 , of the changes were made to the Code criminal , for to the levy of ADN to the assistance of a mandate in the purpose facilitate the too of some investigation police and the identification of suspects .
by the on , in September 1997 , the bill of bill C - 3 was tabled before the House of the Commons .
he had for purpose of encadrer for the first time the structure and the Administration of a bank national of fingerprints génétiques .
this new legislation the inscrivait in the second step of the action of the government .
he had for objective of establish a bank national made the profiles of identification was of the people our guilty of offences criminal serious and violent , and of the échantillons of ADN anywhere on the be of crimes not unravel .
the bank of data should be task of here June of the year 2000 , and it will appropriately by the Mounted Royal of the Canada , who heads now six Laboratories judicial to the country .
honourable senators , well that I one seconded the reasons who have led to the Adopted of the bill of bill C - 3 , I have all of even found , on to a review thorough of this new legislation , that the departments of the Solicitor General and of the Justice had about of there include the profiles of identification was of the members of the staff military who would burdened for of the offences serious and violent , as this is the case for the individuals who will anywhere guilty of such crimes by our system of courts Political .
the 6 October 1998 , the Minister of the Defence , Arthur Eggleton , for before the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional for to the provisions of the bill of bill C - 25 .
as , - this had for purpose of reform the system of justice military , I have asked to the Minister if the military charged or anywhere guilty in under of the new bill would issues to the application of the provisions domain in the bill of bill C - 3 .
, the time , I have also asked to the Minister what body of police , of the RCMP or of the police military would responsible of the levy of échantillons of ADN and of their conservation in the case of offences who impliquent of the military .
honourable senators , these questions were very important because , that the provisions of the bill of bill C - 25 , the offences of order body took by of the military were now met of the courts military .
of more , the Minister of the Justice , Anne McLellan , had already justified the creation of a bank of fingerprints génétiques for that the policiers have a effectiveness increased and be in legislation of stop more quickly the perpetrators sexual and the murderers to repetition .
despite all , the Minister and the military of the Defence national not have not was in legislation of answer to these questions .
the Brigadier - General J . Pitzul , of the they Canadian , has should that he not knew not if the bill of bill C - 3 was the apply to the staff of the they and of the Defence national , even the he had already had several meetings with of the members of the Department of the Justice in this who had with to the reform of the system of justice military .
he the was therefore of a oversight very important in the bill , if the be consider that the bill of bill C - 25 was to the Administration of the justice , to the within of the Forces Armed Canadian , more transparent .
in this sense , he was unacceptable that the military from of a status particular in the excluded of the application of the provisions of the new Act regarding the identification by the fingerprints génétiques .
that is particularly true if the be with that of the fact that to the over of the past years , several scandals involving of the military in mission to the abroad in of the case abuse them and of Ways of fact serious have défrayé the headlines to the Canada .
these incidents have terni the image of the they Canadian and of the system of justice in the public Canadian .
the organization of our society , all as the of our right , does the consistency .
all the citizens are equal before the bill .
they nor of the same rights but also of the same obligations before the bill .
, the time , the members of the Committee not had not felt good of original the bill of bill C - 25 for that the staff military be submitted to the application of the clause , regarding the bank of fingerprints génétiques .
honourable senators , when we have examined the bill of bill C - 3 in Committee , I have raised of new this question with of the Solicitor General of the Canada , who was responsible of this new legislation .
in a Prime time , I wanted know if the Department was in agreed with this that had should the Minister of the Defence and the officers of the they Canadian .
in a second time , I intended that the Minister me say that he had given that of their evidence for to of the changes to the bill of bill C - 3 .
the response to these two questions was not .
during of the business of the Committee , I had also been of serious reserves as to the effectiveness and to the or of some provisions of the bill of bill who was ensure , including , that the échantillons of ADN and the profiles not would not used to of other for that those for in the bill , this is - to - say for of the for of inquiry criminal , and that the right to the life privacy of the people who would inquiries to the levy of ADN be sufficient .
I had also has in question the fact that the bill of bill provided that the profiles génétiques , who would divided in the " fichier criminalistique " and the " fichier of the burdened " , were be people pronouncements after that a inquiry was déclarée not public , that a individual not was more considered as suspect , or if a verdict of acquittement or of not - about final was said by the court to the place of a accused .
that I , these profiles , despite this that have should the scientific of the RCMP , the were of be adversely for reduce the risks that they be used to of other for that those prescrites in the bill .
in December 1998 , the sixteenth report of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional illegality the emergency of establish a bank national of fingerprints génétiques who would to the different body policiers of the country of operating fully the progress technological recent in this field for improve the security public .
the report recommended therefore to the government federal of strengthen the provisions legislation regarding the Administration of the bank of data génétiques and the security of the information who will domain in this last .
in the purpose of answer to these concerns and for to and the Adopted of the bill of bill C - 3 , for Authorize the creation immediate of the bank of data génétiques , the Solicitor General of the Canada , Lawrence MacAulay , the is committed , during of his appearance before the Committee , the 7 December 1998 , to to for the intervalle provided of 18 months between the Assent Royal and the into in effect of the bill of bill C - 3 , a new bill of bill who would including of expand the juridiction of the bank of data génétiques to the Offenders who are recognized guilty in the system of justice military ; of require the Commissioner of the Mounted Royal of the Canada to to that of the operating of the bank of data génétiques in the report annual to the Minister before the Tabled before the Parliament ; of include in the new bill of bill a clause require a review Parliamentary all the five years for relieve the concern of the members of the Committee regarding the nature very sensitive the information that contiendra the bank of data génétiques and of the evolution quick of the Technology in this field , and give to the committees of the Senate and of the House of the Commons the even power of proceed to the review mindful who will provided by the new bill .
he is important of mention that all these elements from in the sixteenth report of the Committee .
honourable senators , the bill of bill S - 10 has was public in service of some points soulignés in the report of the Committee .
that I , he the is of the third step of the legislation federal in the field of the use of the fingerprints génétiques for the too of investigation criminal .
by against , the Solicitor General has asked that the bill of bill be presented to the Senate before of be tabled before the House of the Commons to that the senators can the ensure that all the points considered préoccupants have was completed properly by your Committee Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional .
to relaté the historic of this bill of bill , I like now to the question of the changes proposed by the bill of bill S - 10 .
, the words of the new bill of bill , as I the have mentioned to the beginning of my speech , the profiles of identification was of the offenders justiciables in under of the Code of discipline military who are declared guilty of a offence serious and particular of violence will included in the bank of data génétiques .
this Code the applies to the staff military , to the Reserves and to some Political who Expenditure of the members of the staff military to the abroad .
in under of the provisions of the bill of bill S - 10 , the judges military will legal , first , to to of the guidelines provisions to the bank of data génétiques to the regard of people justiciables , in under of the Code of discipline military , who will was déclarées guilty of a offence plants in under of the as of the Act regarding the identification by the fingerprints génétiques , and second , to Crowshoe of the mandates their to the are génétiques to the for of investigation which by the police military on of the offences désignées who will was took by of the people the under the juridiction of the Code of discipline military , to the Canada as to the abroad .
currently , the bill allows the police military to obtain a mandate for the levy of ADN only the he the is of a offence who was commise to the Canada .
the fact that the police military be now Cabinet to obtain a mandate for a offence plants commise to the abroad is a net improvement , if the be with that of the fact that more de4 . members of the staff military are in service heroic missions to the abroad and that of the incidents serious involving of the military Canadian the are products in Somalia and in Bosnia - Herzégovine .
as in the case of the provisions current of the Act regarding the identification by the fingerprints génétiques , the bill of bill S - 10 for that the échantillons and that the results of the are must be sent to the Commissioner of the Mounted Royal of the Canada for be tabled in the bank of data .
the new bill for also that the provisions who will included in the Act on the Defence national , regarding the Authorized of inquire of ADN , the there and the conservation of the échantillons and the results of analysis was , and the guarantees in this who has with to the respect of the right to the life privacy , will identiques to those who are domain in the Act regarding the identification by the fingerprints génétiques .
by against , they have was adjusted to the context of the system of justice military .
he is important of remind that the Act regarding the identification by the fingerprints génétiques contains a list of offences désignées who refers that all individual court for the a of these offences could to the subject of a taken of fingerprints génétiques for for of analysis médico - legal .
this list has was divided in two types of offences : resource and school .
in the case of the offences an , the échantillons are s necessarily to the time of the condemnation , except in of the case of circumstances exceptional .
be there is including the offences with violence the more serious and the offences to uniqueness body , offences that the elements of evidence to uniqueness was can the better élucider .
be there ' including the offences following : inceste , and to of the for them , murder , homicide involontaire found , abuse they or infliction of lésions Denmark , infliction intentionnelle of lésions Denmark , abuse sexual , abuse sexual serious , enlèvement and séquestration .
in the case of the offences high , the levy not is not required .
by against , the Crown must convince the Justice that the levy of échantillons is in the interest of the security public .
he the is of offences least serious where the analysis was not can not always be used for solve a crime or in prevent of other .
be there ' between other these elements : use of stupid , actions of piraterie , Ways of fact , introduction by effraction in a stimulate criminal , fire criminal , infliction of the death by neglect criminal , Ways of fact against a officer of the peace , flight qualified , taken of hostage .
in under of the bill of bill S - 10 , this list who limit the situations where he there has inquire of ADN the apply now to the members of the staff military who will was burdened for have made these offences .
in a Prime time , the new bill for amend some parties of the Act regarding the identification by the fingerprints génétiques for to that of the changes made to the Act on the Defence national .
of more , the section 12 of the bill of bill for that , in the five years following the into in effect of the bill , a Committee of the Senate , of the House of the Commons or Joint are to a review of the provisions and of the application of the bill .
this even section for also that a report on the activity of the bank of data will tabled each year by the Commissioner of the Mounted Royal of the Canada .
he will tabled before each House of the Parliament in the 15 first days of Senate of the - this following the be of this last .
these changes will for effect of answer to the concerns of the members of the Committee in as to the Parliament the means of better monitor and of control the Administration of the bank of data génétiques .
finally , the bill is amended by the bill of bill S - 10 for that he be clear statement that the profiles of identification was and the marine Denmark credible in view of the establish not must serve that to of the for of identification during of investigation criminal .
honourable senators , I wish to out that the bill of bill S - 10 or also several changes of order technical for make more some aspects of the Code criminal in this who has with to the application of the Act regarding the identification by the fingerprints génétiques .
these changes were proposed on to the creation of a group of work federal - provincial who had for mandate of to in Bill the new bank of data génétiques .
on to several meetings , the officials provincial of the sectors of the security public and of the justice have should that the bill current not was not enough clear in this who has with to the circumstances who are that a Justice not has not to order a levy of ADN .
the bill of bill S - 10 does to these concern in supply clear that a levy not has not to be ordered if the court is informed that the profile was of the human fall the is already in the bank of data génétiques .
of more , the bill of bill S - 10 for that a Justice of a court provincial will authorized to viserne order or a Authorized of levy of ADN who will was made or adjudication in a other province .
finally , this bill of bill or several other changes technical to the Code criminal for that the regime regarding the levy of marine Denmark for analysis was to of the for médico - legal be clarifié and strengthened .
in ending , honourable senators , I am happy of see to new that , through to the we of the members of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional , the Act on the Defence national , the Act regarding the identification by the fingerprints génétiques and the Code criminal will , to my notice , and I am course that you be of agreed with I , our améliorés by the bill of bill S - 10 for answer to the concerns of this House regarding the creation and the management of the new bank national of data génétiques .
as I the have said to the beginning of my speech , he the is of a tool extremely powerful who will of the impact important on our system of justice and on our society .
the provisions of the bill of bill S - 10 will in so that the right to the life privacy of the Canadians will more sufficient in balisant of way more specific for the policiers and the courts the use of profiles génétiques for of the for of investigation criminal .
I can you ensure that the bill of bill will the subject of a review seriously by the Committee for the ensure that he will to the concerns émises by the members this House he there has now year .
the Hon. the Speaker good tempore :
honourable senators , if no other Senator not to take the speak , I further of the before with the motion .
the hon. Senator Fraser , seconded by the hon. Senator Ruck , move that the bill of bill be read a second time .
you pleasure - he of adopt the motion , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed and the bill of bill is read a second time . )
referred to the Committee
the Hon. the Speaker good tempore :
honourable senators , when read - we this bill of bill a third time ?
( on the motion of the Senator Fraser , the bill of bill is referred to the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and constitutionnellles . )
the Act admissibility the taken of decisions Medical
second Reading - Continued of the debate
the order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Carstairs , seconded by the hon. Senator pin , Honourable to the second Reading of the bill of bill S - 2 , Act admissibility the taken of decisions Medical legitimate relatively to the treatment of survival and to the treatment of the pain , be read a second time . - (
the hon. Senator Lavoie - Roux ) .
the hon. Douglas Roche :
honourable senators , any legislation legislative with to the questions of life and of death require of the parliamentarians a reflection of the more depth .
this is therefore very carefully that I have examined the bill of bill S - 2 , Act admissibility the taken of decisions Medical legitimate relatively to the treatment of survival and to the treatment of the pain .
I have consulted of eminent éthiciens , which of the members of the Association Catholic Canadian of the health and of the Care - in - Dying Coalition / Canadian Coalition Against Euthanasia , which has a Diori of organizations disséminées in all the country who préconisent the be compassionate , fair and respectueux of the unevenly .
I am also call to my experience personal for the for of the study of this bill of bill .
, as staff , I have had to take of the decisions and to to of the recommendations regarding the relevance of extend the care medical that actual of the people senators in Phase seeks .
I know of experience how he can be difficult of take this such of decision for the professionals of the health and the members of the family .
in addition , he is important in the framework of a such debate legislative of determine the convictions personal of each , this that each having in the for within .
I believe firmly in the dignity and in the value does of the human human .
I believe that all the people human must be respected , and this , to all the steps of the life , of the conception to the death .
in clear , honourable senators , I me against to the Suicide and to the suicide attended because that these means are exceeded with the dignity human .
by , , I acknowledge the rights legal that the patients have of refuse a treatment and I am all to fact in favour of the promotion of the care palliative as way of inevitable the suffering physical .
the illness , the suffering and the death are part integral of the experience human .
the act of die can be the opportunity of a his taken of conscience of itself who being to of the people of say freely and consciemment the means of their life , and not simply a process inexorable which he must the put passivement .
of other on , the advanced scientific and technological in s of care of health have improved California our ability of soigner the diseases , of inevitable the suffering and of extend the life .
these progress not are not without raise of the questions éthiques that the society not had never had to the for .
he is of the case where extend the life by of the means artificiels is a painful burden for the human mourante or the family .
he is necessary of come to a balance between two obligations : the of not not give intentionnellement the death to a human and the of not not approach , for maintain a human in life , to of the procedures who imposeraient a burden disproportionate by report to the benefits to from of these procedures .
that given of that , I is that the bill of bill S - 2 has to the time some aspects positive and some aspects negative .
I support the intention of the bill of bill , who is of make the distinctions on the decision of to end to the life of a human , in particular the any or the interruption of the treatment , the case if , and the use of pharmacare for was the pain .
he is legal and moral that a soignant given of the pharmacare for was the pain to a human which the life is in danger , even if these pharmacare into of abréger the life of the human in question , to condition that the intention not be not of resulting the death .
the Senate to was informed of the fact that some coping entrepreneurial to administering enough of pharmacare for was the pain by fear of be criminellement responsible , this bill of bill is a legislation positive .
the inclusion in this bill of bill of a clause fault that Health Canada - of the lines guidelines national relatively to the forbearance and to the interruption of the traitemen , identifying the professionals of the health and improving their training in this who with the treatment of the pain and the care palliative and it of the research on the fréquence of forbearance or of interruption of the treatment is a other legislation positive .
, this that we have established the need of protect the coping who want do inevitable the pain of the patients , we must ensure to this that this legislation legislative , if it is agreed , not be not a relates met to the Suicide direct , légalisée .
this is this that redoute the Coalition national for the life , who consider this bill of bill as a Prime not to the creation of a ask in the field of the assistance to the suicide .
honourable senators , is the dilemma which we are face .
how be course that the act medical soulage indeed the pain , well that he be is of abréger the life ?
how know if a patient not has not was submitted to of the pressure for that he accept the treatment ?
this treatment become he of use day in the case where he not would not of danger of death ?
in few words , would - we on the point of jeopardizing the integrity of the life , which , in our quality of legislators , we are held of protect in despite of our desire legitimate of inevitable the pain ?
is as of questions who ineffective a review thorough in Committee Senate , if the bill of bill had to preferred the step of the second Reading .
, my notice , we should give on to this initiative .
the question deserves that we hear the effort of develop a good text of bill in the interest of all the Canadians .
well that this text not amend not the Code criminal , I believe understand that he not is not to in relieve the provisions prevented the Suicide and the suicide attended .
however , in the wording present , nothing not guarantees that this be indeed the case .
the question deserves a new review and a more ample reflection .
he appropriate of make that the human to which he is fact referring to the section 2 is a human which the Late is finalization and inexorable .
he not must not omettre of the make , this who not is not the case to this .
if the intention of the législateur is of inevitable the suffering of a individual struck of a affection virtuellement mortelle , that this the be clear indicated in the text .
I move , during of the study in Committee , that be made a amendment appropriate to this section , followed of changes corrélatives .
honourable senators , he must also the remind that he there has of the situations establish a danger of death who not are not 2.4 to a death imminente and inexorable .
he there has of many conditions predicted and to long term who not it not necessarily the life in danger .
a diabétique who fact a had diabétique fact opposite to a condition délétère , but the death not is never imminente or inexorable .
of more , a human who is supposed be in Phase seeks , who suffering of a illness chronic or which the condition the worsening not is not trusts in a situation délétère , and the bill of bill should the make clear .
for the moment , I canada the principle be that a human who fact opposite to the threat of a death imminente and inexorable has right to the relief of his suffering and that the doctor or the infirmière who load and his suffering not should not be passible of from .
however , we not must not open the relates to the Suicide direct .
he must the ensure that he not there has not a bad interpretation of the real subject of the bill of bill .
I urge the Senate to act of way diligente in this case .
in response to the question that I him have material when it has open the debate in second Reading , the Senator Carstairs has quoted the catéchisme of the Church Catholic as following :
even if the death is considered as imminente , the care ongoing - to a human patient not can be legitimately aborted .
the use of the analgésiques for such the suffering of the moribond , even to the risk of abréger his days , can be morally consistent to the dignity human if the death not is not deal , or as end or as way ...
this or , honourable senators , is useful , but memories - we that it is created by the statement next :
what that in be the reasons and the means , the Suicide direct is to to end to the life of people disabilities , patients or compassionate .
it is morally out .
I am sure that in unissant their efforts , the senators can write a bill who will to maintain the dignity and the rights of a patient which the death is imminente and inexorable and that the standards professional of a professional of the health .
honourable senators , this bill of bill we give also the opportunity of strengthen the support to the programs of care palliative to the Canada .
of good care palliative are for to such the suffering and to improve the quality of life of the people who live with a illness avancée or who in long .
renforçons this need growing to the Canada .
( on the motion of the Senator Roche , to the behalf of the Senator Lavoie - Roux , the debate is adjourned . )
Affairs legal and Constitutional
motion Requesting the Authorized of use the documents and evidence collected during of the review of the bill of bill precedent for the study of the bill of bill present - Stands of the debate
the order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Oliver , seconded by the hon. Senator Di Nino :
that the documents received and the evidence heard by the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional to the over of the study of the Bill bill S - 17 , Act amend the Code criminal relatively to the harassment criminal and to of other issues other , during of the first session of the 30 - sixth Parliament , be removed to the Committee , when he will was set , for the its study of the bill of bill S - 6 . - (
the hon. Senator Cools ) .
the hon. Anne C . Cools :
honourable senators , I believe that the Senator Oliver is to the outset and that he can take the speak to this about .
I had indicated that I him céderais my time of speak .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , in the absence of the Senator Oliver and that given of the hour , I move that this question be have until to this that he be available .
the Senator Cools :
honourable senators , must - we until this question to the behalf of the Senator Oliver ?
I to propose the adjournment in the behalf .
a Senators :
not .
the Senator Cools :
someone a must speak if this question will let .
a Senators :
Inscrivez - the in this case to your behalf !
the Senator Hays :
honourable senators , the question not can be should because that the Senator Oliver not is not here .
the Senator Cools to until the question .
the Senator Cools :
honourable senators , I believe that the Leader of the Senator Oliver him has explained very carefully that , that this that I had including , I him cédais the speak .
( the debate is order . )
Authorized to the Committee of use the documents and evidence collected during of the review of the bill of bill precedent for the study of the bill of bill present
the hon. Joan Fraser , in Conformity with the notice 17 November 99 , move :
that the documents received and the evidence heard by the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional to the over of the study of the Bill bill C - 69 , Act amend the Act on the stopped judicial and a other bill in make , during of the first session of the 30 - sixth Parliament , be removed to the Committee for the its study of the bill of bill C - 7 .
( the motion is agreed . )
( the Senate the adjourned to the Tuesday 23 November 99 , to 14 p.m. . )
debates of the Senate ( Hansard )
wondering Session , Session st ,
volume 6,401 , Issue 10
the Tuesday 23 November 99
the hon. Rose - Marie Cool - Losier , Speaker Pro tempore
table of the Contents
' ' '
the Late of Laurence Decore
the Late of Delia Grey
the review of the policy foreign of the Canada
the fifth anniversary of the Tabled of the report final of the Committee Joint Special
the policy of integration sterilization of the farmers ukrainiens in the kolkhozes agricultural of the former - Union Soviet
Affairs routine
the adjournment
bill of bill of implementation in implement of the Agreement on the Station spatiale international civil
first Reading
the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe
meeting of the Assembly Parliamentary of the Council of the Europe of the 21 May 99 - Report of the report of the delegation Canadian
meetings of the Assembly Parliamentary of the Council of the Europe held the 18 June and of the 21 to the 25 June 99 - Report of the report of the delegation Canadian
meeting of the Assembly Parliamentary of the Council of the Europe held of the 20 to the 25 September 99 - Report of the report of the delegation Canadian
meeting of the Assembly Parliamentary of the Council of the Europe held the 25 August 99 - Report of the report of the delegation Canadian
agriculture and Forestry
notice of motion Motion the Committee to study the of present and the prospects of future of the agriculture
notice of motion Motion the Committee to study the of present and the prospects of future of the Forestry
notice of motion Motion the Committee to Services of the staff and to the adjourn
notice of motion Motion the Committee to to the Electronic of his deliberations
Peoples aboriginal
commission Royal on the Peoples aboriginal - Notice of motion Motion the Committee to study the recommendations relatively to the service government aboriginal and to apply the you received and the evidence heard during the first session
PERIOD PERIOD question
privileges , Rules and procedure
Authorized to the Committee of sit in even time that the Senate - - subject of the meetings
the work
the situation criticism of the without - from - Position Position of the government
the fisheries and the Oceans
the provinces Maritimes - - Particulars on the decision of the Court Supreme confirmant the rights of fishing of the aboriginal
the Affairs Indian and the North Canadian
the provinces marine - - Particulars on the decision of the Court Supreme confirmant the rights of fishing of the aboriginal - - about of the Minister
the Affairs foreign
the Sudan - - role of the society Talisman from - Position Position of the government on the Opposition between the plateforme of the security human and the interests of the investors
the Finance
the policy of the government on the increase of the rate of interest
the Affairs Intergovernmental
the conditions of a next referendum Quebec - Position Position of the government
the Defence national
the lobbying white of 1994 - Position policy of the government
the Alternative of the granny of helicopters Sea King
the former Veterans
the study on the institutions of health - - influence of the report of the under - Committee of the Senate
the Affairs foreign
the Kosovo - - assistance government
the Program of Exchange of pages with the House of the Commons
order DAY THE
bill of bill on the protection of the information personal and the documents electronic
second Reading - Continued of the debate
bill of bill of 99 on the implementation in implement of conventions tax
second Reading - Continued of the debate
the speech of the Throne
motion of Adopted of the Adresse in response - Continued of the debate
Affairs legal and Constitutional
Authorized to the Committee of use the documents and evidence collected during of the review of the bill of bill precedent for the study of the bill of bill present
Affairs Social , Science and Technology
motion Motion the Committee to study the facts new regarding the Suicide and the assistance to the suicide - Adjourned of the debate
Banking and trade
Authorized to the Committee of study the situation of the regime financial domestique and international
the SENATE
the Tuesday 23 November 99
the Senate is met to 14 p.m. , the Speaker good tempore the to the Chair .
prayers .
the Late of Laurence Decore
the Late of Delia Grey
the hon. Thelma J . Chalifoux :
Delia Grey is born in the North of the Alberta in 1917 , but has up in the region of St. - Albert .
Lawrence Decore is unborn to Vegreville , in Alberta , in 1940 and has up to Vegreville , Ottawa and Edmonton .
these two leaders have borrowed of the sentiers different certainly , but , each to his manner , they have contributed to the better - be of the Peoples aboriginal and of the new came who the are deteriorated here for throughout their dreams .
Lawrence has was a member assumption of the Party Liberal of the Alberta and of the Canada who has fought for the right and the possible for all of to part of the imperfect Canadian .
Delia has was a Canadian loyal and caring of the nation her and of the Canada who has assistant without tirelessly for the tis and the Peoples of the First Nations to that them also can throughout their dreams and to part of the imperfect Canadian .
the challenges that these two people have known met with courage are too many for the list all here , but I atteste before you , honourable senators , to the time of the changes who have was people possible through to the implement of these people and of their life of dedication so to the service of their fellow .
their wisdom , their kindness and their generosity will regrettées by all those and all those who the have met on their road , but the heritage that they we are the perpétuera in our children and our history .
we should celebrate their life and express the happiness that we have had of the know all two .
they we will .
the review of the policy foreign of the Canada
the fifth anniversary of the Tabled of the report final of the Committee Joint Special
the hon. Jean - Robert Gauthier :
honourable senators , this months - this in the fifth anniversary of the Tabled of the report final of the Committee Joint responsible of the review of the policy foreign of the Canada .
this report contained close of a cinquantaine of recommendations regarding of the issues also extensive that the contribution to the development sustainable , the New of the security common in from by the renewal of the assistance international .
in a letter that I adressais to the Minister of the Affairs foreign , the hon. Lloyd Axworthy , the 2 November last , I told to the Minister a implementation to day and that the measures concrete taken by the Department since the Tabled of this report .
without have still received a response , he appert that the healthier of the Finance public has substantially reduced the assistance made Canadian to the country in seaway of development .
then that the Committee recommended of at the budget to the assistance public to the development to 0,7p. per of the 1994 , this ratio is past of 0,45p. per in 1991 to 0,26p. per for the year financial 99 - 2000 .
a second aspect sir to the Committee was the promotion and the rayonnement of the culture and of the know Canadian .
this is the first time that a review also serious was on this about .
the Canada fact is of parent poor , if the be consider the dominant investment facts to this chapter by the government Canadian .
in pending a response of the Minister , who me will of assessment the work of the Department of the Affairs foreign to the over of the five past years , I wanted out the work seriously accomplished by this Committee .
the policy of integration sterilization of the farmers ukrainiens in the kolkhozes agricultural of the former - Union Soviet
the hon. A . Raynell Andreychuk :
honourable senators , he there has about 67 years , a event terrible and very sad has changed for always the life of the public backgrounds .
this is in 1932 - corner that the Leader Soviet Joseph Stalin , in view of contraindre the million of farmers ukrainiens to from to the agriculture collective Soviet , has adopted , of way démoniaque , several tactics to to dramatically a refer policy .
he has adopted of the measures such that the increase of the quota of supply céréalier in Ukraine to 44 per , to of create a lack so of grain and of standard the inability of the paysans ukrainiens of the esteem , the implementation in place of a system of passeports international for to limit the travelling of the Ukrainiens to the research of food , the enforcement of any human surprise to take or to the of the grain in a kolkhoze , the persecution of thousands of white , of writers and of leaders ukrainiens and the assaut to the assistance of tanks and of Surplus of villages habités by of the farmers without Defence .
this not are that that few - few of the measures political horribles taken by the Leader Soviet Joseph Stalin and by the man of with Lazar Kaganovich in view of sky the will of resistance of the Ukraine .
despite the efforts challenges been for the or effacer the atrocity of this refer policy , of the academic service have coast of the evidence concrete who allow of assessment to about 10 million the number of victims of the genocide .
he is regrettable that the world World not has not recognized or including the magnitude of the genocide when the Union Soviet there still .
the leaders current of the Khruschev to recognized this event historic atrocious , this last must be including and commémoré .
he wrote :
this that I have seen this morning - that was if horrific that he not there has not of words for the describe .
they had was took to the piège and caught each in him to die of hunger , pursuant to a decision policy taken in a capital very remote , around of tables of conference and of service .
they not had even not the prize of the inévitabilité for inevitable the horror .
I know that the senators in this House are of ardents advocates of the because of the rights of the human and that of the dignity and of the value of all the people human .
I you encourage therefore , honourable senators , to you join this night to the Congress eke Canadian and to the Group of friendship Canada - Ukraine to of to tribute to the victims of the genocide by the refer orchestré in Ukraine in 1932 - corner .
you have received a notice to your offices , but I you remind that this event will place this night to 19 p.m. 30 in the Block of the Centre , Room secession - C .
I am sure that the honourable senators profiteront of this opportunity for to tribute to the victims of the refer .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate , and notwithstanding the section 58 ( 1 ) p.m. ) of the Rules , I move :
that , when the Senate the adjourns today today , he remains adjourned until to tomorrow , the Wednesday 24 November 99 , to 13 p.m. 30 .
the Hon. the Speaker good tempore :
the leave is - it granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
bill of bill of implementation in implement of the Agreement on the Station spatiale international civil
first Reading
the Hon. the Speaker good tempore informed the Senate that he has received of the Commons a message with of the bill of bill C - 4 , Act to implementation in implement of the Agreement an between the government of the Canada , the governments of States members of the Agency spatiale European , the government of the Japan , the government of the Federation of Russia and the government of the States - United of America on the cooperation Current to the Station spatiale international civil and Dolly of the changes other to of other laws .
( the bill of bill is read a first time . )
the Hon. the Speaker good tempore :
honourable senators , when read - we this bill of bill a second time ?
( on the motion of the Senator Hays , the second Reading of the bill of bill is placed to the order of the day of the Senate Thursday 25 November 99 . )
the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe
meeting of the Assembly Parliamentary of the Council of the Europe of the 21 May 99 - Report of the report of the delegation Canadian
the hon. Lorna Milne :
honourable senators , I have the honour of table the Prime report of the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe on the delegation Canadian to the meeting held the 21 May 99 to Paris , in France , of the Board of the environment , of the be of the territory and of the powers local of the Council of the Europe .
meetings of the Assembly Parliamentary of the Council of the Europe held the 18 June and of the 21 to the 25 June 99 - Report of the report of the delegation Canadian
the hon. Lorna Milne :
honourable senators , I have the honour of table the second report of the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe on the delegation Canadian to the sittings of the commission of the questions economic and of the development of the Assembly Parliamentary of the Council of the Europe held to the seat of the Organization of cooperation and of development economic ( OECD ) , to Paris , the 18 June , and that to the session plenary of the Assembly Parliamentary of the Council of the Europe held to Strasbourg , in France , of the 21 to the 25 June 99 .
meeting of the Assembly Parliamentary of the Council of the Europe held of the 20 to the 25 September 99 - Report of the report of the delegation Canadian
the hon. Lorna Milne :
honourable senators , I have the honour of table the third report of the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe on the delegation canadienneà the session plenary of the Assembly Parliamentary of the Conseilde the Europe held to Strasbourg , in France , of the 20 25 September 99 .
meeting of the Assembly Parliamentary of the Council of the Europe held the 25 August 99 - Report of the report of the delegation Canadian
the hon. Lorna Milne :
honourable senators , I have the honour of table the fourth report of the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe on the delegation Canadian to the meeting of the Committee Standing of the parliamentarians of the region arctique held the 25 August 99 to Mourmansk , in Russia .
agriculture and Forestry
notice of motion Motion the Committee to study the of present and the prospects of future of the agriculture
the hon. Joyce Fairbairn :
honourable senators , I give notice that Wednesday next , the 24 November 99 , I move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the agriculture and of the Forestry be authorized to study the of present and the prospects of future of the agriculture to the Canada ; and
that the Committee it report to the more later 29 June 2001 .
notice of motion Motion the Committee to study the of present and the prospects of future of the Forestry
the hon. Joyce Fairbairn :
honourable senators , I give notice that Wednesday next , the 24 November 99 , I move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the agriculture and of the Forestry be authorized to study the of present and the prospects of future of the Forestry to the Canada ; and
that the Committee it report to the more later 29 June 2001 .
notice of motion Motion the Committee to Services of the staff and to the adjourn
the hon. Joyce Fairbairn :
honourable senators , I give notice that Wednesday next , the 24 November 99 , I move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the agriculture and of the Forestry be authorized to clerical the services of counsel , technical , employees of office or other elements necessary for to the bills of bill , the substance of bills of bill and the forecasts budget who him have was referred ; and
that the Committee be authorized to the adjourn to across the Canada and to the abroad to the for of such reviews .
notice of motion Motion the Committee to to the Electronic of his deliberations
the hon. Joyce Fairbairn :
honourable senators , I give notice that Wednesday next , the 24 November 99 , I move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the agriculture and of the Forestry be authorized to to the with of his deliberations public by the media of information electronic , in disruption the least possible his business .
Peoples aboriginal
commission Royal on the Peoples aboriginal - Notice of motion Motion the Committee to study the recommendations relatively to the service government aboriginal and to apply the you received and the evidence heard during the first session
the hon. Charlie Watt :
honourable senators , I give notice that Wednesday , the 24 November 99 , I move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Peoples aboriginal be authorized to to a study and to to a report on the recommendations of the Board Royal on the Peoples aboriginal ( Document parlementaireno 2 / 35 - 508 ) relatively to the service government aboriginal and more particularly , to obtain the point of view of the Peoples aboriginal and of the other it on the questions following :
2 . the mechanisms necessary to the ushered of the new relations structurelles ;
3 . the models of self government aboriginal necessary for answer to the needs of the Peoples aboriginal and for concorder with the new relations structurelles ;
that the you received and the evidence heard on the question by the Committee Senate Standing of the Peoples aboriginal during the first session of the 30 - sixth Parliament be referred to the Committee ;
that the Committee tabled the report final to the more later 16 December 99 , and that the Committee divested the powers necessary to the Electronic of the results of the study content in the report final and this until to the 24 December 99 ; and
that the Committee be authorized , notwithstanding the practices considered , to table the report with of the Clerk of the Senate , if the Senate not seat not , and that obedience report be being have tabled to the Senate .
PERIOD PERIOD question
privileges , Rules and procedure
Authorized to the Committee of sit in even time that the Senate - - subject of the meetings
the hon. ë A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , my question the is to the Senator Austin , chairman of the Committee Standing of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure .
in the Journals of the Senate of the 18 November , to the page 128 , the Senator pin , to the behalf of the Senator Austin , has proposed , seconded by the Senator MLA , the motion next :
that the Committee Standing of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure be authorized to sit to 16 p.m. 30 the duration , even if the Senate seat , of now to the end of December 99 , to that the Committee can study the questions of privilege ...
honourable senators , I have received today today a order of the day .
the expéditeur not is not identified , but I know that he with the Committee Standing of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure who must the meet today today , the 23 November , to 16 p.m. 30 . Cinq questions listed to the order of the day , which four not have nothing to see with the question of privilege .
the Senate has authorized the Committee to sit in concomitance only for that he can study the questions of privilege .
the Speaker of the Committee could - it we give of the explanation to this about and ensure to this that the instructions of the Senate be observed by the space ?
the hon. Jack Austin :
honourable senators , the order of the day of the Committee has was sent by the Clerk of the Committee and I not in have took knowledge that to afternoon .
I then ensure the senators that we commencerons by the question of privilege raised by the Senator Andreychuk , followed of the raised by the Senator Kinsella .
however , I had hoped that we could take a Diori of seconds of our time this after - afternoon for Authorize the abdication to the rights in this who with the ask introduced by the Church morave of America .
no member of the Committee not having of problem to this regard .
the Church morave of America has has his rights to the opportunity of the last session and wish to as if these rights had was doctoral .
the Committee will then free of deal exclusively of the questions of privilege before of return to the House for obtain of other guidelines .
the work
the situation criticism of the without - from - Position Position of the government
the hon. Erminie J . Cohen :
honourable senators my question the is to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
that of the information , the cabinet is currently a proposal for a expenditure of 1,2 billion of $ oude 200 million of $ by year for struggle against the itinérance .
the spring last , the government has children to the Minister of the Labour the mandate of find a solution and it was supposed develop a strategy in the months following .
this was the spring last .
the Winter Strike to our doors .
the Leader of the government can - he say to the Senate when exactly the cabinet will prepared to to a plan relatif to the itinérance and to the to in implement ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
I thank the hon. Senator of have asked this question .
this is clearly a problem who its of the risen serious across to the country and who has many - the attention of the government .
the Minister of the Labour the is déplacée of a across to the other of the country for attempt of help the government of the administered and of obtain their comments regarding the enforcement of the mandate .
as the know the honourable senators , for come to across of the problem as he is , he will presumably of the resources additional .
the resources necessary will determined in the framework of the process budget normal .
the Senator Cohen :
honourable senators , I am well to the aware of the number of miles that the Minister has parcourus in the country .
I wish to remind to the honourable senators that the need the is now , before that the snow starts to let .
why no plan not has he still was adopted , in November , in view of ensure of the storms for the Winter ?
the Senator Boudreau :
I not like not let to the honourable senators the Appendix that no legislation not will agreed this Winter .
I believe understand , honourable senators , that to this at - this , this is a problem important who has was raised by the Minister of the Labour , and I me am to this that of other measures can be announcements under little .
the fisheries and the Oceans
the provinces Maritimes - - Particulars on the decision of the Court Supreme confirmant the rights of fishing of the aboriginal
the hon. Gerald J . Comeau :
honourable senators , I have a question to for to the Leader of the government to the Senate on the case Marshall .
the Minister the will that the decision original has of place to someone confusion .
in despite of the Particulars who have was data , the Minister of the Affairs Indian , Robert Nault , only always that the rights aboriginal derogate of treaties the apply to the resources natural .
the Leader of the government to the Senate is aware of the consequences of this decision or of this Position .
the Minister would - he to the Senate if this is that the Position of the government also ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
that I , the judges have said that they want that their judgment the applies to the questions who their have was inquiries and that they not were not loans to in expand the application in of other areas .
I not believe not that they have excluded these other difference .
they the are bornés to say that he not was not , by extrapolation , apply their decision to of the circumstances other that those who are i by it .
, the hour current , the government the consistent to this judgment , and the confusion that the Court Supreme has made will of a great lot for the discussions who are in over and who , hope - the , chemically of the results positive .
the Affairs Indian and the North Canadian
the provinces marine - - Particulars on the decision of the Court Supreme confirmant the rights of fishing of the aboriginal - - about of the Minister
the hon. Gerald J . Comeau :
honourable senators , as the Leader of the government to the Senate the knows , the Minister Nault has tried of speak in the process and of the to in obviously to the has national - and I selected my words with prudence - in the there insinuant can - be a little too .
given of that he has created the Appendix that the cabinet support the idea that the judgment over the right ancestral to several other resources , and the of that the Leader seat to the table of the cabinet , he want can - be to understand to his colleagues of the cabinet that he would bring to the not this clone of Doug Young and the require to the with to the Position of the cabinet .
the problems the aggraveront in the region of the Atlantic if this clone - and I employ this word with prudence - on in the seaway of the destruction of the resources of the region of the Atlantic .
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I hope that the Senator Comeau me pardonnera if I greetings the sense General to the Minister in of the words a little more academic .
I not have not heard directly his about , but the Minister wanted can - be say that any the question aboriginal is more broader and not the reduced not to a sector particular of the resources .
I believe that the confusion made by the Court Supreme the is proved useful for solve this who is a problem very immediate in the sector of the fishing .
I hope therefore that the be bill to solve the problem when the representative of the government in the s appreciate the various parties interested of the world of the fishing , there including the representatives aboriginal in the region of the Atlantic .
he must hope that that can well augurer of the solution of other problems in with regarding the aboriginal .
the Affairs foreign
the Sudan - - role of the society Talisman from - Position Position of the government on the Opposition between the plateforme of the security human and the interests of the investors
the hon. Donald H . Oliver :
honourable senators , my question the is to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
it fact on in reality to a question that I have raised the week last to the hon. Minister regarding the society Talisman from , of Calgary .
this morning even , the coverage let continues of the situation which that of the shareholders of Talisman , including a group representative of the funds of investment and of the funds of Pension of congrégations religious , are pressure since a year on the society for that it is the consequences Social and economic of his presence to the Sudan .
in a section released today today in the section " Opinions " of the Globe and Mail , Tim Ryan , a priest Catholic who is since long actionnaire of Talisman , described the efforts been for have this society of energy , and that all the companies Canadian , to assume the role of stakeholders responsible in the economy and to adopt a Code of the rights of the human .
the government is - he prepared to protect the interests of the shareholders Canadian if the mission of inquiry as attendue which that the presence of Talisman EnergyInc. to the Sudan contributes directly to the violation of the rights of the human in this country ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
I me commitment to the to .
as to know if the government Canadian will of the measures for protect the shareholders , I not am not sure of understand this that the hon. Senator will by that .
the he could me give more of Particulars on the such of measures that he maybe appropriate , I could can - be him give a response .
the Senator Oliver :
SelonM. Ryan in the section of the Globe and Mail , the chairman of Talisman would asked : " Pourquoi we ? "
this to what , always Migu Ryan , a group of shareholders would answered :
... this that we asking to Talisman we are systematically of the obtain of all the companies : a Code of conduct comprehensive covering the rights by of the human and that the standards our in s social , environmental and of work , of the repères appropriate can of was the respect of these commitments and a system of audit credible of the performance of the society .
the Senator Boudreau :
in this who with the society even , I have already said to the honourable senators that if the inquiry confirmed the very serious allegations which it fact the subject , he is obvious that he would consider of take of the measures against this last , or against any other society the finding in a situation similar .
in this who with of the measures specific that the government of the Canada could take to the behalf of the shareholders for protect their interests financial or for order to the society of take some measures , I not know always not to the fair this that move the Senator .
the Senator Oliver :
the shareholders have said that some measures that they would see for ensure the protection of the rights of the human and of other rights are already Answers in of the conventions approved on the plan international , as the Declaration Universal of the rights of the man , the conventions of Geneva , the conventions of the Organization international of the work and the Convention of the UN Current to the rights of the child .
they are that be colleague these conventions and statements which the Canada is signatory .
the Senator Boudreau :
in this who has with to the actions of someone society that this be , we must insist on the respect of some standards of conduct .
the allegations reviewers of serious questions , between other , if this society has respected or not these standards .
if a inquiry and a report indicate that it not the has not fact , the government instead of take of the measures against it .
I believe that he with is all to fact legitimate for the shareholders of proceed of this way .
that some shareholders decision or not of give some guidelines to the board of Administration , the government of the Canada will make the inquiry until to the across and , that given of the findings of this inquiry , he instead of take the measures appropriate against the society .
the Finance
the policy of the government on the increase of the rate of interest
the hon. David Tkachuk :
honourable senators , the rate of interest have slowly increased these the months , to the time where the Bank of the Canada attempts of juguler the inflation .
he there asix years , the 23 September 1993 , the Globe and Mail reported that , to the say of the Leader of the Party Liberal , Jean Chr , a government Liberal would to the Governor of the Bank of the Canada , John Crow , of to a more great attention to the creation of jobs , to the place of the let obséder by the inflation .
when be him has asked this that he would Mr. Crow not was not of agreed , Mr. Chr has answered : " I you say that he is a official of the government . "
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , our government has always respected the role of the Governor of the Bank of the Canada .
this by , we must congratulate the Governor Thiessen .
I think that he has succeeded of way remarkable to find the balance wanted .
then that the events in of other regions of the world the précipitaient , he has was in legislation of maintain the Cape and , in fact , of create a unkind who has for to our economy of know a good growth and of continue his growth to a pace remarkable .
our rate of growth has was almost without equivalent in not any which of the great country industrialized .
the Senator Tkachuk :
honourable senators , I in conclude then that we should as believe the comments of the Prime Minister to the about of the Governor of the Bank of the Canada that those that he has made on the GST .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I not jouais not a role active to the time of the Governor Crow , but be establishes a balance of way different that the circumstances .
when he the is of determine if the rate of interest are to a level appropriate , that depends many of the unkind economic to this time - that .
if the economy the relates well - this is - to - say that it is in full period of expansion - then , he is can - be appropriate of have a rate different of this that he would in period of recession .
the rate of growth real of the economy has was of close of 4 per to the over of the four the trimestres and be for maintain a strong growth .
the growth of the Canada , among the country of the G - 7 and in the world industrialisé , not is dépassée that by the of the States - United .
honourable senators , I not can speak of the uniqueness appropriate of some rate of interest to some periods .
I it that to the Governor of the Bank of the Canada .
I think that he gets a work remarkable .
the Affairs Intergovernmental
the conditions of a next referendum Quebec - Position Position of the government
the hon. Jean - Claude Rivest :
honourable senators , what are the intentions of the government federal in this who with the held of the next referendum to the Quebec - all in souhaitant that he not there in will not ?
is - this that the Minister could inform this House of the decisions who have was taken by the government federal to this regard ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , of any obviously , he not is not in the interest of the government of facilitate the held of a other referendum .
however , he there has some principles that to the majority of the Canadians and that the members of the government and , probably , the most of the senators .
first , if never he there has a referendum , he will insist on the or .
the or will exigée for the question to for also well that for the results of the referendum .
in fact , this opinion represents a part extremely important of the decision .
the other principle on which the most of the Canadians are of agreed - and this is a part of the Position dugouvernement - , this is that the Parliament of the Canada must have the word to say to the regard of this question .
the separation not cannot be the question relation of a province .
this is a question who interest the senators and of other parliamentarians .
the mechanisms will of application of these principles are now the subject of a debate .
however , we can out that , first , the or is essential and , second , the separation is the case of the Parliament of the Canada and of the Canadians , and not of a only province .
the Senator Rivest :
when the Minister we as that the Parliament of the Canada must be Employee , to - he say the House of the Commons and the Senate ?
in the spirit and in , of the government , is - this that the lead of the government federal is in the words of the process referendum him - even , as the or of the question and the majority required ?
what is the notice of the Minister ?
the Senator Boudreau :
the honourable senators are invited to comment their were , and this will of , a part important of the process .
the Court Supreme has said without doubt that the problems of or , regarding the question and the results , interested the government federal and all the governments provincial .
the Senator Rivest :
, the origin , in the drafting or the formulation of the question and that in the majority who , any , could be necessary .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , in the two case without doubt , the or is important .
the hon. John Lynch - Lynch ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I hear someone something of deed .
the Minister , to the behalf of the government , we said that the Parliament of the Canada will the word to say in the formulation of the question and in the determination of the percentage of the Senators .
in fact , the two Houses of the Parliament will to the process referendum if the Quebec wants of to a referendum .
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , the hon. Leader of the Opposition widening a little too the scope of my about .
I have said that the government of the Canada must participate to the process as the has 6 the Court Supreme .
when I say " the government of the Canada " , that includes also the Senate .
as to the or , I believe that the government of the Canada and the province in because will of the discussions .
in fact , of the governments of other provinces not directly in because could participate to the discussions .
the nature specific of this process will determined to the over of the weeks and of the months to come .
for the time , I not would not prepared to describe in detail the nature exactly of this participation .
the Senator Lynch - Lynch :
I specific respectfully that the Court Supreme of the Canada not has not ordered to the government of the Canada of to what that this be and that it not has not record of judgment .
it has of a opinion from well over - beyond of the three questions domain in the referred of the government of the Canada .
the Minister point here a policy government who has fact the subject of discussions and who remains problems .
this that I hear , this is that be can be , in a some legislation , a intervention Parliamentary and government in the process preparatory to the referendum on the future of the Quebec , be to the within of the Confederation , be to the outside of the - this , before the held of this referendum if never he has place .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I can ensure to the hon. Senator that , when be prepare the held of a referendum , the government of the Canada not will not inactif without participate to the process or comment the nature of the question .
the Defence national
the lobbying white of 1994 - Position policy of the government
the hon. J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , my question the is to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
the book white on the Defence of 1994 rest he the taken of Position clear of the government by report to the questions regarding the Defence ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , if the Senator to obtain confirmation that some elements special the day still in the policy of the government , I me will a happy of obtain for him this information .
the Senator Forrestall :
honourable senators , to the like of my Leader , I read in the statement government that some changes made to the policy of Defence of the Canada are fellow inaperçues .
I must say , in any humility , that I me interest of enough close to this policy .
the Leader can consult the colleague to his left the he think that I plaisante .
suppose that of the changes have was made to the policy since his publication he there has five years .
I quote a which was of the page 50 of the document in question :
of the options and of the plans will therefore immediately définis in view of to in service of new aircraft to a price affordable , of here to the year 2 . .
the year 2000 is in five weeks .
the book white has was released he there has about five years .
what is the Position of the Canada by report to the Alternative of the helicopters ?
the policy of our country has it changed ?
not is - this not that the Position of the government of the Canada ?
the Senator Boudreau :
as to the aircraft Sea King are the hon. Senator the interest particularly , I not then that repeat this that I have said in the past .
they have the priority number a of the Minister of the Defence .
the Minister fact current the matter , and we hope have of the announcements to to in a it future .
the Alternative of the granny of helicopters Sea King
the hon. J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , he there has someone time , a statement of needs has was prepared .
in fact , this document had was prepared before the cancellation of the market of acquisition of the EH - EH .
we told now that this statement of the needs has refait greater .
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , we know , of after the information that the Senator Forrestall has brought to the attention of the Senate , that the things have bougé in the program of Alternative of the Sea King .
that is still , the he the was , of the fact that the Minister of the Defence would a high priority to this question and that he make a decision clear as that possible .
as I the have already said , I will know the decision to the Senate as that I the speak .
the Hon. the Speaker good tempore :
honourable senators , the period of the questions of 30 minutes is now completed .
the leave is - it granted of continue , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the former Veterans
the study on the institutions of health - - influence of the report of the under - Committee of the Senate
the hon. Consiglio Di Nino :
honourable senators , my question the is to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
more earlier this year , the Committee Senate Standing of the former Veterans has product a report over on the health of the former Veterans .
this report has was horns and seconded by the honourable senators , well course , but also by of the people foreign to the Senate .
we believe now know Mr. Baker , the Minister of the Affairs Veterans , the without to about a study similar on the even about .
is - this that a mirrors of the opinion that the Minister has of the excellent work fact by the Committee Senate or is - this all simply that the Department has too of money and to replicating a study who has already was made for literally the money that the taxpayers have - win ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , the Minister knows very well that the Committee Senate fact of the good work .
be can assume that the report of the Senate will part of the documents on which he fondera the decisions that he will take .
of any obviously , he Justice necessary of ask to the Department of to a new study , but I not think not that he whatsoever in conclude that he not would no value to the work fact by the Senate .
the Senator Di Nino :
honourable senators , the Leader of the government to the Senate give to hear that the Minister Baker has can - be seen the report of the Senate .
the has he seen , yes or not ? If he not the has not seen , the Leader of the government to the Senate could - he him in to to copy as tomorrow morning ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , he is obvious that I will of the question to the Minister Baker .
the he not has not still copy of the report , I him in remettrai a to the first opportunity .
the Affairs foreign
the Kosovo - - assistance government
the hon. Nicholas W . Taylor :
honourable senators , I have a question to for to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
this will soon the Winter to the Kosovo , as here of , .
we have spent of the hundreds of million of $ to destroy the superstructure of the Kosovo .
the hunger , the cold and the lack of people stop of many people .
that fact the government Canadian for help to provide food and remembered to the two camps who the are contrary in this part troublée of the world ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , the government Canadian the is committed to provide of the assistance as economic that humanitarian to the Kosovo .
in fact , the assistance announced recently totalise someone 180 million of $ .
the 30 October , be has announced that a amount of 65 million of $ would libérée by the through of the CIDA , dont35 million for the assistance humanitarian , 10 million for the assistance economic and 20 million for the pacification and the increase of emergency .
the 1 November , be has still announced a assistance Supplementary of 112 million of $ , which 40 million of the CIDA , 15 million for the assistance economic , 25 million by the through of the CIDA for create a environment course and governance the peace , 20 million for the increase of the community , et12 million for the program Canadian of support to the training regional .
finally , the 17 November , be has announced 3,7 million of $ additional for the assistance humanitarian and economic and for the Organization international for the migrations .
we suivrons the situation of close .
the Senator Taylor :
honourable senators , the government think he to send a part of our surplus food , for which our farmers not touch not a compensation enough , to of the regions of the world who in have a more great need that we ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , to my knowledge , that not fact part of no of the plans existing that I have mentioned .
however , I ask certainly the question to the Minister .
the Program of Exchange of pages with the House of the Commons
the Hon. the Speaker good tempore :
honourable senators , I like wish the welcome to a page of the House of the Commons who at to a Exchange with the Senate .
it the Order Cynara Corbin .
it is placed of Dollard - Peoples - Ormeaux , to the Quebec , and is in criminology to the Faculty of the Science Social of the University of Ottawa .
order DAY THE
bill of bill on the protection of the information personal and the documents electronic
second Reading - Continued of the debate
the order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Kirby , seconded by the hon. Senator Lewis , Honourable to the second Reading of the bill of bill C - 6 , Act to to facilitate and to promote the trade Electronic in perpetuate the information personal collected , used or releases in some circumstances , in for the use of means electronic for bring or like of the information and of the transactions and in amend the Act on the evidence to the Canada , the Act on the were regulatory and the Act on the review of the laws .
the hon. Wilbert J . Keon :
honourable senators , I like benefit of the opportunity for to few brief comments on the bill of bill C - 6 .
this is a bill of bill extremely necessary that I support with enthusiasm , all in to few reserves .
I hostility therefore the need of to few brief comments on the bill of bill before that he be referred to a Committee .
since few years , the ability of the Canada of meet , of as , of fusionner , of transfer and of use of the information the is substantially percent .
he in result that of the information in all such circulent in the country , and even across , on the planet , with more of freedom and of speed that never before .
certainly , the Families of our ability to this regard there of the benefits , but he not in remains not least that the question of the cueillette , of the disclosure and of the use of the information raises a sure number of concerns provisions to their uniqueness private and " .
honourable senators , to the obviously , the bill of bill C - 6 has for subject of protect the information personal collected by the sector private and , in fact , of we to of up the progress of the Technology .
since 1982 , the Act on the protection of the life privacy protects the information personal held by the government federal .
the provinces the are pourvues of were similar .
however , he not in will not of even for the information held by the sector private .
, this regard , this bill of bill the is at fact expect .
we not must not act too soon , without have examined to further all the impact of this initiative .
he not is not a field where the uniqueness private and " of the information held not is also important that , of the health .
the perception and the concerns of the public in s of raising and of treatment of the information on the health are well whom , but they deserve of be rappelées to the seen of the questions that I wish raise to about of the bill of bill .
in a Prime time , the patients believe that the information medical the regarding will confidentiels .
then , they feel important of know what use their will for and to who these the will releases , and they not want particularly not that these information be ever to of the third without that they not in be informed and without that they not have of their agreed .
finally , the patients could hesitate to would of the information the regarding to the professionals of the health the they the interrogent on the use or the disclosure desdites information .
, the paragraph 2 ( 1 ) of the bill of bill , be will by " Intelligence staff " all Intelligence regarding a individual identifiable , to the exclusion of the behalf and of the as of a employee of a organization and of the is and number of telephone of the place of work .
by therefore , any information regarding his health or the treatment of to a patient identifiable and all Intelligence regarding the care of health easier by a professional of the health identifiable are , by definition , a uniqueness private .
honourable senators , the Association medical Canadian , the Association dental Canadian and of other associations representative the professionals of the health the are what very agri by the impact not that could have the bill of bill C - 6 in this who has with to the information personal and to the other activities sensibles from to the system of health .
as the honourable senators the know , the bill of bill is to facilitate and to promote the trade Electronic in perpetuate the information personal collected , used or releases " in the framework of activities trade " .
he not has not was designed in songeant to the system of health .
in effect , I believe that well of the people not have not thought to the system of health to the time of develop this bill of bill .
and this is this who fact that , in a some legislation - that he is difficult of determine - , the bill of bill could have a impact not on the system of health .
even if the bill of bill is around on the activity commercial , he is obvious that be not cannot establish a distinction such between the - this and the activity linked to the care of health that the issues of health would the subject of a treatment different of the other issues .
the subject , statement in words waves , of the part 1 of the bill of bill , and that the application to the professionals of the health working in a business which the key service is the Benefit of care of health , have of what concern .
in what the bill of bill influera he on the treatment of the data allow to the for of the medicine preventive , of the diagnosed medical and of the research medical , on the Benefit of the care and on the management of the services of care of health ?
honourable senators I specific .
I believe that he is imperative of clarify the bill of bill C - 6 for satisfy to four points important .
first , the bill of bill C - 6 must another a definition clear of the information are the applies the right of the individual to the life privacy .
as I the have fact having , he not specific not in what legislation these provisions the apply to the information medical .
by example , the ( 4 ( 1 ) has ) states that this bill of bill the applies to any organization to the regard of the information personal that it recueille , using or report in the framework of activities trade .
this who is a activity commercial not is not clear defined .
he seems that the be on of the principle that that excludes automatically the issues medical .
however , where finit the activity commercial and where are the care of health , that not is not clear of the all .
in addition , he not there has no line Director for the flow of the information medical between the institution of health and the institution commercial .
second , the bill of bill C - 6 not protects not the information medical .
of the rules must be completed in this who with the information medical to of to that of their nature special .
in particular , the bill of bill must be clarifié and amended to of include , in this who with the information medical , of the rules specific who network the focus on the protection of the right to the life privacy and who garantiront that the information medical not be releases that on a basic selective and under the control and with the consent informed of the patient .
in addition , any definition linked to the raising and to the use of the information medical should include of the information identifiables , of the information without link can of identify the patient , of the information anonymes and any combination of these types of information .
of more , I like to out that a recent report of the Council Advisory of the information on the health has clear has that any legislation legislative to with to the respect of the life privacy and to the protection of the information on the health " should also include of the provisions clear prevented the use commercial school of the information on the health . "
third , not only the bill of bill C - 6 should include of the provisions only for the information on the health , but he is also important that these provisions be colleague also to the sectors public and private .
I recommends that these provisions be based on the framework that provides the Code of protection of the information personal on the health some and adopted by the Association medical Canadian .
this Code could may the basic of the bill gouvernant the raising , the use and the disclosure of the information on the health .
fourth , the part 2 of the bill of bill C - 6 not specific not to what for the data electronic related to the care of health and to the issues medical could be used .
of more , he not there now no rule , this who it the relates met to all they of abuse .
honourable senators , I ask your support to of ensure to this that these concerns be settled before that the bill of bill C - 6 not continue the over .
the government has the opportunity , even the obligation , of give to the Canadians of solid rights in s of respect of the life privacy relatively to the information on the health .
in even time , he is of a interest vital of protect the ability of transfer of the data to of the for of care of health legitimate and of encourage a better management and integration of our system of care of health .
of this fact , the bill of bill C - 6 is a legislation legislative important and necessary .
he is however essential that we veillions to this that it will effectively to the concerns expressed by the members of the community of the care of health .
I believe therefore that we should try of help the government to the Committee in Dolly of the changes to this bill of bill , this who in would a legislation legislative still better .
( on the motion of the Senator Kinsella , the debate is adjourned . )
bill of bill of 99 on the implementation in implement of conventions tax
second Reading - Continued of the debate
the order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Payette - Hervieux , P , seconded by the hon. Senator Robichaud , P ( - Acadie - graduated ) , that the bill Bill S - 3 , Act an in implement a agreed , of the conventions and of the protocoles conclude between the Canada and the Kirghizistan , the Lebanon , the Algeria , the Bulgaria , the Portugal , the Ouzbékistan , the Syria , the Japan and the Luxembourg , in view of avoid the duplicates Socialist and of prevent the evasion tax in s of taxes on the income , be read a second time .
the hon. John Lynch - Lynch ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
I wish however to attention to the honourable senators a country described by this treaty and which the behaviour raises of the questions regarding the relevance for the Canada of maintain of the links with him .
by therefore , I hope that tomorrow or when the bill of bill will before the Committee of the Banking , he there will that of the officials senior of the Affairs foreign in legislation of better answer to the questions regarding the country in because .
the country which I about is the Ouzbékistan , a of the ancient republics vividly in Asia core .
in a recent release in date of the 20 October , the Russel Zinn AsiaWatch :
... documente regardless a profile of arrest policy , of detention and of harassment of the members of the families of activists political and of dissidents church to the over of the six the months .
he there has also many of evidence crédibles that which the police his regularly of small amount of drug or of no on of the people that it touch for their has political or religious .
the steering executive of the Russel Zinn AsiaWatch for the Europe and the Asia core has said :
the government of the Ouzbékistan claims the prepare to to of the election free and field all in loyalists the members of the families of the Opposition on the verrous and in the débarrassant of the key .
this not is not that a way of to the democracy .
in a other release was the even day , the Russel Zinn AsiaWatch has said :
the schools and the universities of the Ouzbékistan say of open their doors to the musulmans to the barbe and to the women to the chador .
that this organization :
the government of the Ouzbékistan relates it of across to the freedom religious .
the expulsion of students musulmans is a other aspect of this campaign .
as if that not was not enough , the government of the Canada , in his own note explicative regarding the bill of bill , said that :
he not is not rare that the major opposed and the members of their family be held and torturés .
the trade commercial the are élevésà 18 million of $ in 1988 .
the Canada not has fact no Investment majeur in this country .
no company Canadian not fact of work of and oil or mining , this who seems be the major attractions of this country .
those who there have thought much that this is primarily the environment commercial ouzbek who the with to the gap .
always that the notes of information , the companies Canadian of high Technology who have realized of the sales in Ouzbékistan have had many of difficulty to to out the earners foreign of this country .
that the data available , he seems that this not be not the a of the regions the more prometteuses for the investors Canadian .
each time that he has had case to a regime répressif not to not the intention of s a minimum of democracy , the Canada has always took Position , be by of the sanctions or by a boycottage whatever .
since he there has well little of commitment between the Ouzbékistan and the Canada , I not see not why we should adopt a such treaty to the hour current .
I hope that the Committee will in legislation of prove the contrary or to all the least that he the tighten on the question because , to least that be me proves the need of a such treaty for the protection of a good number of Canadians on the plan of the taxes , by example , I believe that he would appropriate of propose a amendment who retrancherait the treaty of the bill of bill and the garderait to the gap also long that necessary .
can - be the regime ouzbek will he that the Canada is really seriously when he canada the rights of the human and the democracy and that he not fact not that repeat the words of the other .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , her the Senator Payette - Hervieux is am today today and this is it who has presented this bill of bill .
I not know not if of other senators have someone something to say to this about .
if this is the case , I not like not me there against .
however , if no other Senator not to take the speak , I move of refer the bill of bill to the Committee Senate Standing of the Banking and of the trade .
the hon. Consiglio Di Nino :
then - I for a question ?
we have received of many bills of laws of this nature .
I me remind that he there has few months to only , we have was before of a bill of bill similar who has was referred to the Committee of the Affairs foreign .
a sure number of questions , separate of those of the Senator Lynch - Lynch , had also was raised then .
why this bill of bill will he referred to the Committee of the Banking to the place of the Committee of the Affairs foreign , as this was the case , he me seems , of bills of bill precedents on of the conventions tax ?
the hon. ë A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
I believe that we contrevenons to the Rules , honourable senators .
the Hon. the Speaker Acting ( the hon. P . Derek Lewis ) :
before of to this point , we should adopt the bill of bill in second Reading .
the Senator Hays :
we should let the speak to the Leader Deputy of the Opposition .
the Senator Kinsella :
for streamline , I move the adjournment of the debate .
the Senator Hays :
honourable senators , to of clarify the situation of the questions which this House is back , with your leave , I will withdraw any motion that I would could to during my intervention , who would were referred of the bill of bill to the Committee .
and , we able to place to the motion of adjournment of the debate of the Senator Kinsella .
( on the motion of the Senator Kinsella , the debate is adjourned . )
the speech of the Throne
motion of Adopted of the Adresse in response - Continued of the debate
the order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Jeffrey , seconded by the hon. Senator Furey , Honourable to the Adopted of a Adresse to His Excellency the Gouverneure general in response to the speech that her has by during of the openness of the second session of the 30 - sixth Parliament . -
( 4e day of the resuming of the debate . )
the hon. Sharon Carstairs :
honourable senators , I have had until to now the happy - my faith , yes , the most of the time the happy - of hear 11 speech of the Throne , as to the Parliament provincial that here even , to the Senate .
that they have was given here or in my province native of the Manitoba , they affichaient all the even over .
they were all a little waves .
he must understand that , of by their nature even , the speech of the Throne are rather waves .
they are refreshed of talk words , but avares of details .
I have always éprouvé a some compassion for the Gouverneurs worry and the lieutenants - Governors who must read these speech .
however , the this speech of the Throne me has profoundly affected by places because that he establishes a new program , a program for the children .
he is very well that I about of that today today because , as the has out Thursday last the Senator Callbeck , we have celebrated the Day national of the child Saturday last , the 20 November .
as the know the senators , in 1993 , the government federal has appropriately the 20 November Day national of the child to of writings two events historic of the UN , to know the Adopted , the 20 November 1959 , of the Declaration of the rights of the child and the Adopted , the 20 November 1989 , of the Convention Current to the rights of the child .
the young of today today are the leaders of tomorrow .
for ensure to our children the better departure possible in the life , we must invest now in the future , in their future .
the experiences and the research scientific indicate that the Prime development of a child submit the success to the age - .
, the below of the new millennium , we must see to this that our children have the Paralympians and the benefits necessary for that our society be Yukoners and prosperous .
the children have need of our love , of our support and of our your , but they have also need of opportunities for learn .
their needs basic must be satisfied .
more earlier this after - afternoon , I lisais a speech of the Senator Gill on the aboriginal to the Canada .
this is tragic , but the needs basic of the children aboriginal are rarely satisfied .
in 1989 , all the parties represented to the House of the Commons have adopted a resolution to the Elimination of the poverty in the children before the year 2000 .
as the Senator Cohen the knows , we are in November 99 and , unfortunately , we have took of the backsliding by report to 1989 .
however , I hope that , through to this speech of the Throne and to the budget who the in just , the legislators will to of the progress to this regard .
of any obviously , we not will not our objective for the year 2000 , but he must hope that we entamerons the millennium of the good at .
the poverty an all the aspects of the development of a child , also well to short that to long term .
that starts in the within of the mother , with a bad nutrition , and the on all to the long of the years of training , affectant all the aspects of the growth and nuisant to the success .
be not can the expect to this that a child which the needs basic - food , housing and Clothing appropriate - not are not satisfied can learn and the épanouir .
of more in more , the programs of assistance social of the provinces motions the beneficiaries across to the Canada to accept of the work up .
I not me against not to this that the people reflect a work who their is .
I believe that that is beneficial for the image of itself and for the own development .
however , if , in at the people to work , we not we préoccupons not of the care to give to the children , who will it ?
I know who will losing .
the children will are .
these families will spirits the statistics and the recipients social from of the workers those .
in our planning , we must absolutely to the priority to the quality of the care to give to these children .
nowhere on to the Canada the salary minimum not is enough high for to even to those who have a employment to time full of 8.4 to the poverty .
, Winnipeg , in 99 , that a report recent of the Council national of the well - be social , a parent only who has a only child should work 80 p.m. by week for can to the below of the poverty the he has a employment up to the salary minimum .
, Winnipeg , for a family who that two parents and two children , he would 118 p.m. of work by week for can to the below of poverty .
honourable senators , he not there has that 168 p.m. in a week .
the credit of tax for children , a magnificent program ' on at by the government , has unfortunately was been in some provinces as a system who their allowed of reduce the benefits of assistance social .
the program has therefore improved the fate of the poor who working , but he not has not increased the income of the recipients social .
the children have always need of their parents .
some of between we we asking even if our children adults not have not always need of we .
this is why of the programs as the Program of assistance préscolaire to the aboriginal , the Program Canadian of nutrition prénatale and the Program of action community for the children have all was essential for look the basis of a widest development to long term in the children .
I have was very pleased of find in the speech of the Throne seven commitments to the about of the children : of the benefits more generous for the congés of initiating and parentaux , a agreed federal - provincial for better support the development of the young children , a increase of the income after tax of the families , of the as of work more conviviaux for the families , including in the Administration public federal , the modernization of the right family , a third injected of funds important in the Benefit national for children and the New of the opportunities of learning through to a expansion of Rescol .
honourable senators , the statement budget not is not the hall , but , if I dentist Paul Martin to prepare the budget , the families poor who working have right to all the cuts of tax .
all these initiatives are urgently , honourable senators .
in particular , the speech of the Throne announced of the congés parentaux améliorés through to the extension of the period of the benefits parentales paid by the regime of insurance - employment .
we want can - be study of the changes in this sense to the regime of insurance - employment .
for the time , concentrons - we however on the congés parentaux .
he the is that of a initiative very positive , but I hope that , when government the will , he will that of the fact that the parents of today today are loans to share the responsibility .
these congés not are not available only to the women .
the Fathers have a opportunity wonderful of benefit of the congés parentaux .
however , with the bill current on the insurance - employment , if the mother and the father want benefit of the break , each of the two would a period of Awaiting of two weeks .
this is unfortunate because that , personally , I like that more of Fathers Canadian taking the home in with , even for of disappear periods .
personally , when I have should from six weeks to the Hospital to the time of the birth of my second child , the aînée not could not me visit and it and the father the are many rapprochés because that this was particularly him who the was of it .
the after - afternoon , when the chariot of friandises was , I achetais a dust of chocolat for my daughter and I the him écrivais a letter in he , because it not had that three years , and I him was to by the father , who is became the parent favourite for this period .
I not have known that a little after my return to the home that they mangeaient the dust of chocolat together in our reads before the at .
but what that he in be , to the over of this period particular of his life , my husband is became very with to my daughter aînée and their dictated duration still today today .
the small boyhood is a period criticism for the good development of the child , as to short that to long term .
the children who have of the experiences positive to the over of their small boyhood are better to the school , they have a better believe of them - same and they are better adaptés to the life in society .
more later in their life , they have of best jobs , least of problems social and least of problems of health .
they are least may of have of the babies to the teenager , they breakfast least of drugs and they are least may of let in the youth .
that we surprend - he really ?
take the case of a small daughter or of a small barking of five years typical who between to the mother .
this is can - be his first or second experience of the school .
in the case of children of the class average , even of a family poor Telecommunication of good skills parentales - yes , he there in has - , when they are to the mother , they with their behalf , where they live , their number of telephone , they found the alphabet , the converted and the figures .
these children are to a time criticism of the learning , the more important the the learning of the Reading .
Comparez that to the children who not are not the figures , or the alphabet , or the converted .
as the departure , as the beginning of the classes , a group of children is disadvantaged by report to a other .
this is why the intervention in the first boyhood is if important for that we can reversing the trend of the opportunities for these children - that .
that a study that I have called recently , 28p. per of the boys lead a behaviour antisocial concerning in mother were offenders to the age of 13 years , 28p. per of between them !
this is why a program of action national for the children is if important .
the promise of the government of work with the provinces and the territories to the implementation in implement of a plan of action of here December 2000 for strengthen the development of the first boyhood is essential .
the program of action national for the children - a initiative federal , provincial and territorial - sharing number of objectives of the Day national of the child .
they designed the even message .
in working together , the Canadians can the ensure that all the children live in a climate of love and of understanding , that they be which as of the people and that they have the opportunity of to their full potential when they will adults .
in the speech of the Throne is also announced Échanges Canada , a program to to give to per . young each year the opportunity of live and of study in of other regions of the Canada .
what wonderful experience !
I am a better CIBC because that I have lived in several regions of the country , and I know that my children the are also because that they have lived also in several provinces and that they are capable of speak the two languages official of the Canada .
not forget not also the programs as Katimavik .
honourable senators , to the over of the 10 next days , a group of these young we make visit on the Hill , and I you urge to speak to some of between them .
the Hon. the Speaker Acting :
I am sorry of interrupt the hon. Senator , but the time of speak is has .
the Senator Carstairs :
then - I have the leave of continue , honourable senators ?
the Hon. the Speaker Acting :
the leave is - it granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator Carstairs :
thank , honourable senators .
these young who are Canadian by Katimavik not are not of the young very as for to go to the university .
this are of the young who not know not too this that they will to .
however , I can you say , after the have met to the over of the years , that after a year to the within of the program Katimavik , this are of the young very as who have learned our two languages official , who have worked to of the bills of services community to the Canada and who have now of the bills for their future .
this is this that he must encourage to the Canada .
honourable senators , in the speech of the Throne , the government has also - the commitment of to to new a bill on the young Offenders .
in fact , the Minister of the Justice has already presented to new the bill of bill under the along C - 3 .
I will to this bill of bill very carefully for ensure to this that we not be not too get .
let - I of quote a report of the 20 June 1995 of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional to the about of the bill of bill C - 37 , amend the Act on the young Offenders , part 1 :
several witnesses have as that he was contrebalancer the concerns legitimate of the public to the regard of the violence in the adolescents with of the information will on the rate of youth and on the operating of the system of justice for the young .
the Committee believes that or the young or the great public not have interest to this that be véhiculées of the inexactitudes on the fréquence of the crimes with violence made by of the adolescents of even that on the range of the actions .
these report offensive can significant of the fears not based and own the public to such of the measures of more in more punitives , little may of to people the causes hands of the crimes with violence made by of the young .
be will constantly say that the rate of the youth in the young is to the increase - this is the refrain sir to the members Reform - , that the young are of more in more violent and that of the measures more strict the do because that the bill current on the young Offenders is too low .
however , honourable senators , that a recent publication of the Service Correctional of the Canada to on of the data of the Centre Canadian of the statistics legal , in the together , the number of young who have was charged of a offence criminal and who have appeared before a court for adolescents has decreased between 1992 and 1997 .
when be consider the crimes violent made by of the young to the has national , be not be that a lightly increase .
the transfers of young to the courts for adults not have or increased or decreased .
finally , the most of the provisions to the regard of the young has increased ; contrary to the perception to the within of the public , the sentences Finland to the young are far of be clémentes .
that a study that I have called recently , the only average on to a young to made a crime was Superior to the on to a - for the even offence .
however , to the Manitoba , the three quarters of the members of bands not are not of the young , this are of the adults .
honourable senators , the Canada does of the children in other to a rate two time higher to , one in the most of the States of the States - United , who have the rate of incarceration the more high of all the riel as that in this who with the adults that the young .
in Finland , he not there has that 10 boys seniors of least of 18 years in other , and this , on a public of five million of people .
, the Canada , he there has 4 . young in detention on a public of 31 million of people .
believes - be really that our young are six time and half more nasty that the young of Finland ?
in Norway , he not there has more of other for children .
honourable senators , of 30 to 70 per of the young Offenders are affligés of a type whatever of difficulty of learning .
, the place of durcir the legislation legislative regarding the young Offenders , we should any of the resources to to solve the problems of the people in difficulty of learning for that they are young .
the research indicate that the children who benefit of care and of a education of high quality as their young age are - many least many that the other to be CANBAT to of the crimes and to of the actions of violence , that this be as victims or as perpetrators .
the Council national of prevention of the crime has recommended of make the fight against the youth in be in Prime place of good programs social for the children .
honourable senators , to the beginning of my remarks , I have mentioned that this was Saturday the tenth anniversary of the Adopted of the Convention of the Nations Nations Current to the rights of the child .
the convention with of the rights of the children and of the young of least of 18 years .
it recognizes also the role important of the family in the education of the children .
before the convention of 1989 , in under of the right international , a child was considered as a subject which he was to of the care and of the protection .
the convention has amended this perception in grateful the rights of the child as human , and in him easier the right to the freedom of expression , of association , of meeting , of religion and of the life privacy .
the Canada fact the subject of criticism to the has international since 1989 for have out of repeal the section 43 of the Code criminal , who between in conflict with the section 19 of the Convention of the Nations Nations .
in 1995 , the Committee of the rights of the child of the Nations Nations has recommended that the punishment punishment to the - or , be avenues and has asked that the Canada review the section 43 to the light of this recommendation .
I am déçue of see that he not is not fact mention of the endangers of the section 43 in the speech of the Throne .
the media have announced yesterday that the Minister of the Justice will this week of the changes to the Code criminal to of protect more the animals against the actions of violence and the abuse .
the changes are for to recognize in right that the animals not are not a well and that they exist in as that such .
the children are of the people unique .
they have need of our love , of our support and , by - with all , of our advice .
the children have need of discipline , but he there has many of other ways of appeals a child that of approach to of the punishment punishment .
in reality , of the studies have revealed that the punishment punishment there more , and not least , of violence .
the government the oriente in the good leadership .
any legislation who is to protect our children and to encourage their full throughout and the too of their potential is a legislation positive .
as a good teacher , I will to a increased of notes to this about .
the hon. Donald H . Oliver :
I have heard speak of the measures that the government claims take for improve the life of the aboriginal , of the women and of the Canadians disabilities , but I have had a listen the more carefully possible , I not have nothing heard to the about of the fourth group : , of the Canadians owned to a minority visible .
this is as if we were hearted of the planet , of the least the planet such that the government present the is .
I not have however not was surprised .
the minorities visible not have never really figuré in the priorities of the government .
we not do not part of this that the Prime Minister Order pompeusement the vision Liberal of the new millennium .
I think that that the ask by the fact that , contrary to the women , we not attirons not the attention of the simple fact of our great number .
we not helps not not more of feelings of about as the people disabilities .
we not are not the point of mire of the media as the aboriginal .
, the place of that , he seems that we are simply that in as that black , Chinese , Vietnamiens , Indian of the Indes orientales , Pakistanais , Nigérians , Sénégalais , voters , Libanais , Nicaraguayens , Boliviens , and cetera .
we are a group hétérogène of individuals became of all the regions of the world .
we are a group of individuals among which good number are for the adapt to their new land of reaction while that of many other are here since a century or more ; we estate all to of the minorities who trying of overcome the various forms of racism , of partisanship and of intolerance which they are opposite in their daily .
he seems that no of between we not is dignified of a attention particular or not seems we the less in of interest or of consideration of the on of the government .
given of this indifference inexplicable and inexcusable , he is of my duty of take the speak in this chamber today today .
he has left a part small but Maritimer of our community not ; and without Senators .
I rise therefore the speak , for a short time , to of speak of the case of the minorities visible before the Senate .
honourable senators , I like remind to the government that the members of the minorities visible are also of the citizens of our wonderful country .
in despite of the difference of the colour of their peau , of the form of their be , of their focus or of their customs , they are part integral of our great family Canadian .
he not must not the overlooked or their be of ways , as be the has clearly fact in the speech of the Throne .
that the the surveys , 32p. per of the people of Toronto are of the members of minorities visible , all as 31p. per of the people of Vancouver , 15 per of the people of Calgary , 12 per of the people of Montreal and 7 per of the people of Halifax .
, the over of the next years , these figures will still increase .
statistics Canada for that he there will someone 7 million of members of minorities visible to the Canada in 2016 .
if such is the case , they will 20 per of the public Canadian .
in despite of their number always growing , the members of the minorities visible are widely held to the gap of the flot Main of the society .
honourable senators , look around of you .
the minorities visible are 11 per of our public .
are - they 11 per of the Senate or of the House of the Commons ?
and that in is - he in the forces Armed , the order judicial or the industry bancaire ?
how of chairmen of university know - you who be members of minorities visible ?
how the fact - he that the CBC not seems not find of members of minorities visible for take on to his many galleries of discussion and to his many shows of expert .
how that the fact - he , in effect ?
the exclusion of members of minorities visible of their fair on of the jobs is a phenomenon who an all the sectors of our society .
the service public of the Canada in is a excellent example .
the Department of the Defence national that least of 500 members of minorities visible on a total de17 . employees Political , and the Service Correctional of the Canada in that to only 300 among his 12 . employees .
the situation is still more disgraceful to the at senior .
honourable senators , least of 3 per of the does of the service public of the Canada are members of minorities visible .
be me said that , to the exception of the people appointments by ascertain , he not there has , in any the service public , no under - Minister member of a minority visible .
in fact , the last would took his retirement he there has two decades !
that be there think .
he there has surely more of per under - ministers in the service public , and they are all of race that !
other said , no of the more of 9 . members of minorities visible that I have mentioned he there has a moment not has the qualities required for become under - Minister .
not a only of between them not has the education , the experience and the know - to for exercise these duties .
this is difficult to believe !
however , this not is not a question of time ; this is a question of attitude .
be the leaders of the service public of the Canada believe in the equity in s of employment , be they not there believe not .
well one , the of their to , I not think not that they there believe .
honourable senators , the service public not is not the only to refuse of open his doors to the members of minorities visible .
the even situation from in our own court .
take a minute for reflect to the last time where we have seen a employee of the Senate who was part of a minority visible .
if you are as I , this minute could in become two or three .
the fact is that , that the office of the Clerk , only 1,2p. per of the employees of the Senate are members of minorities visible .
that represents a total of six people on 138,481 employees , in a institution who is supposed help to give the example to of other .
I refers these two institutions as examples , but he there in has well of other .
the real problem , that I , this is that in not seize not , be heritage the idea that he not is not necessary of act .
in of other words , be the said that if be not fact nothing , the problem disparaîtra of him - even .
honourable senators , we have already seen , with the referendum to the Quebec and today today , with the fishing on the Coast is , that a such approach not led that to of the problems .
be refuses to the minorities visible of the opportunities field in s of employment .
we should in speak , obtain the opinion of the it and find of the ways of overcome the problem .
argue that that not there not not rule nothing ; yet , this is exactly this that we do .
the even something the product in the field of the relations Wounded .
the Canadians unhappy to believe to wrong that they live in a country more compassionate .
he not there has not of émeutes Wounded here .
the assassins not abattent not of the leaders of the communities minority .
the black not are not fought to death or almost by of the bands of policiers the long of a road or agressés sexually in the wards of bain of the positions of police .
all the world the will and he there has of the space for all .
the only problem with that , this is that this not is not true .
the Canada not is not a Arcadie of the era modern ; this not is not true not more that all the Canadians unhappy their next .
in fact , very often , the love fact place to the animosity , to the confidence , to the fear and to the haine , yes , the haine .
of the crimes as by the haine are made to the Canada , even if , fortunately , this not is not to the even has that to the States - United . Quoi that he in be , that the product .
it has was battue and noyée .
why ?
because that it was member of a minority visible .
we have of the groups sectaires to the Canada also : the Ku Klux Klan , the White Power Canada , the Nationalist Party of Canada and the Heritage Front .
the newspapers and the television not speak virtually not of the question .
why ?
because that the majority of the Canadians not are not it .
for the white , the equity in s of employment , the racism and the crimes as by the haine are of the questions intellectuelles rather that practices and that the includes .
in effect , the white are rarely of the Targets .
honourable senators , the minorities visible not are not a treatment Special .
they not are not of were who are refusées to of other .
they want work , have of the jobs rémunérateurs , rise their children in a environment course , their give the possible of have a life healthy and prosperous , as all the world .
as the other , they want be accepted for this that they are and that the be not é not that of their country of origin or of the colour of their peau .
we have recognize fact enough of progress these past decades for that that be possible .
can - be am - I still that too honourable .
honourable senators , I have fact to the beginning of the year a speech on the situation of the community black to the Canada .
in my remarks , I have said that I doutais very that we arrivions really to the equality of my alive .
after this speech , someone a is come me ask why I continuais to defend my ideas when , in my for within , I not thought not that the things s change .
I have answered that I not had not really the choice .
this is a responsibility that I accept so in despite of the reserves that I can have .
honourable senators , that he me be for of have few reserves .
let - I of in douter .
I be that of the stereotypes negative remain to this day in the society Canadian and in the media to the regard of the minorities visible .
the access to some jobs rest subrepticement deduct .
the members of the minorities visible continue of the to deal of nègres , of chinetoques , of black Pakistanais , and of asiates .
I not am therefore not sure that the things have indeed many changed .
the response not is not in a bill of bill - this is obvious .
we have the Charter Canadian of the rights and freedoms , the Act Canadian on the rights of the human and the Act on the citizenship Canadian .
yet , the prejudice and the racism remain .
the Reform would senior and very that the minorities visible should be reléguées to the back - plan , hides .
the Administration public federal employ many too little of minorities visible , to the with that be not cannot fairer a bill of this dispute .
of the members of groups sectaires now regularly of the documents addresses Honourable to significant the intolerance Discrimination and ethnic , the violence and well of other feelings hostile .
honourable senators , the real solution to the problem of the racism and of the prejudice ahead in the education and the trade .
the people must learn to the know .
they must reliance their anxieties versus .
for that , he their must of the information .
this is the information who allows of eliminate the suspicions and the stereotypes .
it establishes of the links between the members of the community and promote a better understanding .
however , the information to it only not can with all the problems .
he must there have a commitment .
he must that all be convinced that the minorities visible have right to all the benefits of the citizenship .
this is that who is to the heart of the problem .
I believe that he with in part to the government federal of promote this commitment .
a part of his responsibility is to we driver , in as that country , to the harmony and the respect linked .
this is to the government of tracer the been to follow .
however , he not the fact not .
the Prime Minister and the cabinet have decided of not not to that of the question of the minorities visible .
they are as if it not there not .
the Hon. the Speaker Acting :
honourable senators , I regret of duty interrupt the hon. Senator , but the time of speak is has .
would - he the leave of continue ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator Oliver :
thank , honourable senators .
their problems not deserve not our attention .
find of the solutions for eliminate the racism , the inégalités and the discrimination , this not is not a priority national .
of any obviously , I not can be of agreed with this attitude , and this is this Opposition who me because to speak to the Senate today today .
in ending , honourable senators , I say that if the government not to not the deal to this question , we could the to here .
seen the diversity of the knowledge and the rich experience of the senators , I am sure that a debate on the place of the minorities visible to the Canada would place to of asset evidence .
if we pocket then continue the study of the question , a under - Committee of the Committee of the Affairs Social could be up to this effect .
the mandate could another a tour of the country for which he recueillerait and compilerait the opinions the more to day on the employment to the within of the minorities visible .
be could also form a Committee Joint of the House of the Commons and of the Senate for ensure a followed to the findings of the Committee Daudlin of 1984 .
you you recall that this Committee had examined the participation of the minorities visible to the life of the society Canadian .
what that be the road empruntée , honourable senators , we not must not follow the example of the government in by nothing .
the hon. Mira Spivak :
honourable senators , I wish to congratulate the senators who have presented and seconded the motion of Adopted of the Adresse in response to the speech of the Throne because they have all two spoke with eloquence to the behalf of their provinces and regions .
the funding of the research and the method taken for ensure this funding can have a impact on the vitality even of a country and determine the future of the economy and of the system of health , and that the well - be of his citizens .
well that I am satisfied of the speech of the Throne , I wish to comment briefly a of his are .
this is this that the price Nobel John Polanyi was the " marketing of the science " .
during of a recent remarks before the Corporation Royal , he has criticized this trend in stand that it crumbling the universities Canadian and because the more brilliant scientific of the country to the they .
he would could add that this trend contributes also to the collapse of the service public who was , to a time of , more centrée on the better interest of the consumers and of the public that on the concerns of the companies .
the laureate of the price Nobel the in is took to the policy of funding of the research of the governments federal and provincial , who have fact of the universities of the for of the industry .
the Canada is went too far , has he said , in their the research industrialisée to the expense of the research systémique or fundamental .
the drain to the States - United of scientific and of researchers of Prime plan is also the result , of the least in part , of this policy little drop because , enough eager , the States - United the are held to distance of this industrialisation of the research .
, the States - United , only 6 per of the research university are areas by the sector private .
I hope that the initiative announced in the speech of the Throne to the regard of the Instituts of research in health will a change of the values on this point .
the farmers have 14.6 this year of the potato records or almost .
in Saskatchewan only , they have product 27,8 million of tonnes of grain , of oléagineux and of crops special .
and yet , their earner - economical and their way of life are threatened in part if totally because that the grants federal have was reduced to a U.S.A. of this that the governments European and American are to their own producers céréaliers .
the Canada not subventionne not these producers agricultural .
if the silence of the speech of the Throne was cruel , the response of the government to the crisis in the weeks who have followed évoquait the " silence of the agneaux " .
the first ministers of the Manitoba and of the Saskatchewan , who are came to Ottawa , have was sommairement removed .
the Minister federal of the Agriculture has announced that a amount Supplementary of 170 million of $ would added to the Program of assistance in case of disaster linked to the income agricultural , phase called ACRA .
this figure represents least of 15 per of this that the first ministers of the Manitoba and of the Saskatchewan those necessary .
this spring , the government does has administration 79 million of $ for come in assistance to the farmers victims of floods .
he said now that he not is not in legislation of would his quote - on .
the Saskatchewan is also the arrangement impraticable and think to the withdraw of the program ACRA .
even if the provinces could help still more , the problem , this is that to the obviously , the program ACRA is far of be to the up .
in date of the 25 October , the program not had déboursé that 227 million of $ , be least of 13 per of this that the Minister as of legislation of assistance of 1,78 billion of $ .
as he has was already mentioned in this chamber , more of the half of the requests made by the people of the Manitoba and of the Saskatchewan have was so .
is this that Morris Dorasch said to this about in Agri - grade :
when he pays , the program ACRA offer a funding to the bad people , for the bad reasons and of the bad way .
I like an a point who has was raised to the over of the debate of emergency .
the farmers must obtain of the money before ë .
the they not in get not , they not will not in legislation of ensemencer to the spring .
this is also simple that that .
be can their to of the assistance of all they of ways , that this be by the that of the income net , the taxes or the reduction legislative of the rates of transportation that the farmers must pay and who should , of after of the studies , be reduced of to the least 5 $ the would .
the Minister of the Finance we has confirmed that the money not lack not .
the problem the is therefore to the level of the will policy .
this is why the agencies of the Western trying of persuade the Prime Minister of come see by him - even the consequences of this crisis in by visit to the sectors agricultural of the Western .
he has right to the even protection of the on of the government of the Canada that the other producers get in of other country with which he is in competition .
today today , our producers of Wheat get least of the third of the grants which from their competitors in Europe .
the Leader of the government to the Senate has criticized to the provinces of refuse of help more to the program ACRA .
I must to out that to the States - United also well that in Europe , this is the level the more high of government who funding the grants .
no state American not offer of programs of grants agricultural who vaillent the only of be mentioned .
the superbudget of the Union European is , who the applies to the grants agricultural .
of the thousands of farmers and their families are forced of leave the land , and be we said that this is the make inexorable of the progress technologique , but the industrialisation in this sector not is not inexorable and not is not a progress .
the time is can - be come for the farmers of express their own message durum .
buy of the intrants who are increase the production and the revenues of the Canada in earners foreign through to the exports , but not the income net of the farmers , this is a bad case who not would no value to the initiatives and to the with of the farmers .
the problem of the family agricultural is summary in a section that I have received recently of my intrépide Leader .
I like in read a a :
until to all recently , the most of the people in the world were nourris by the grandchildren farmers who head various food of basic for trigger the communities local and the markets local .
but with the rules of the WTO , the grandchildren farmers by .
in a great part of the world ( there including to the States - United ) , of the companies international have took in with of other elements of the agriculture and are many of products chemical and now the biotechnologie .
the small hailed have yielding the place to of are favourably of monocultures of luxury Canada to the export .
and all this transportation of substantially food détériore the environment .
all this transportation of food by at , by truck or by from to the four across of the planet fact increase the consumption of energy , worsening the pollution of the Oceans and of the would and contributes to the changes El ... ... ... .
he must more of emballages , this who system a more great and of the Forestry .
he must of new infrastructure .
and , of any way , the food products industriellement are least shaped , are of the products chemical who polluent the soil and the water and an of the problems of health public .
by therefore , not not protect the and agricultural , this is responsiveness a resources valuable .
of , , the and agricultural not is more small .
, the Canada , it can to of 10 . to 20 . hectares .
the Senator Carstairs has spoke with many of eloquence of the Program of action national for the children and of the importance of the education in the small boyhood .
I him say simply that , if it to propose a new time a amendment to the Code criminal on the punishment punishment , I be pleased of support a such amendment .
when I at to the board school , to the Manitoba , we have eliminated these punishment in the regulation .
let - I of say a word to the about of other elements of the program who not the concrétiseront can - be not quickly .
and , in June 1997 and for the campaign election , he has was said that a new government Liberal établirait of the centres of excellence for ensure the well - be of the children and débloquerait a funding of 20 million of $ on five years .
a Diori of months more later , no centre not has still was ' on at .
the question of the garderies is still more important .
I like speak of two reports recent for we remind why we not must not overlooked the services of Access and why we have need of a system national .
the Prime , and the Senator Carstairs there has fact referring , this are the new evidence neuroscientifiques who recommend that the three first years of life of the child have of the impact on his ability of learning , the behaviour and his health during any his life .
not not give to the child a good departure in the life , this is this who creates the real deficit of s grise to the Canada , not the drain of the drain .
second , the report fact upon that the investment public in the programs the ability to the very young children are also important that the investment in the education resource , school and Superior and in the health .
third , the report establishes that the communities are very effectively to integrate the programs provincial and federal to the level local .
this report , as many of other before him , remind to the leaders political that , the they négligent the services of Access , they the are to the risks of the society .
he ask to the government federal of investir3,5 billion of $ in a system national of garderies of quality and affordable in partnership with the parents and the governments provincial and territorial .
that update a such Investment ?
that the report :
of many programs social would the families , but the services of Access are the armature of all these programs .
the services of Access are the program who recoupe to the time the security of the income and the services .
be has demonstrated to and occasions that the services of Access are the part essential of the participation of the parents , particularly of the mothers , to the public active .
the improvement of the participation of the mothers to the public active is essential if the be to reduce the poverty upon .
Michael McCracken , of Infometrica , is went still more far and has seemed the number of jobs as be created .
a reduction of a billion of $ of the taxes on the income of the special characterized approximativement 9 . jobs to the cost of 96 . $ by employment .
a billion of $ spent to the services of Access characterized 46 . jobs to a cost of 8 higher $ by employment .
this is of , a calculating enough sad because that he is that the workers of garderies not than not enough sir .
however , this are that of the facts bruts .
the journalist Linda McQuaig we said that Health Canada has public a bill of program national of garderies .
however , he seems that the government of the Canada not fail not this program with many of effect and that he not in fact not the promotion .
of more , he not is not fact mention in the speech of the Throne of the protection of the health of the children against the threats Environmental .
let - I of you give a example .
we know that the incinérateurs municipal , some industries and the people who are brûler of the lumber treaty émettent of the dioxines in the environment .
we know that of the amounts of this substance arsenal very Threat the find in our food .
is still , be in is in the milk maternel to of the levels forty time senior to the does in a steak .
a opportunity in however the is introduced , course , to the over of the debate on the bill of bill C - 32 , for ensure to this that the dioxines be phase bannies and convince the municipalities , the governments provincial and the businesses of amend their process equity .
the government has also missed the opportunity of to evidence of leadership in négociant a treaty international of shut of the dioxines to that the Canadians be protected against the transportation atmosphérique on of long disappear of the dioxines and of other products chemical works .
however , he not is not too later - be can always act .
in the speech of the Throne , he is said that of the measures will taken on the pesticides .
these measures the are expect since long , because he there now someone 6 . products advanced who are registered to the Canada .
however , as the Auditor General the has has , no given not is recueillie on the use of the pesticides and we not know not not more what are all their ingrédients , because only the ingrédients active must be officially registered , then that the huiles or solvants toxins used as other components have Confidences .
the effects of the pesticides on the children not are not mesurés .
only the effects on the adults the are .
the Hon. the Speaker Acting :
I regret of interrupt the Senator , but the time of speak is has .
the Senator Spivak :
then - I complete my comments , honourable senators ?
the Hon. the Speaker Acting :
is - this of agreed , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator Spivak :
he not the is that that of few - few of the are of the Act on the products antiparasitaires of 1969 , who is seriously dépassée .
he there has five years , the government has record public the " book mauve " , in which he has proposed a new system regulatory , grateful the conflict of interests inherent of Agriculture Canada , who is to the time as this and as body of regulatory of the products antiparasitaires .
the power of regulatory has was transféré to the Minister of the Health .
five years more later , no bill not has still was introduced .
as the would T . S . Eliot , can - be the expect to this that nothing not come the warring between the s and the action ?
fact ironic , if the government has recognized the conflict of interest who there to the level of the pesticides , he refuses of see the conflict of interest who there to the level of the questions of the security food and of the environment .
the Agency Canadian of inspection of the food , by example , promotrice of the biotechnologie , the is appropriately in situation of conflict when it the is seen give , by the bill of bill C - 32 , the responsibility of the assessment of the impact on the environment of the there they of the plantes and of the animals .
this was logical the role of Environment Canada .
the other question which I like speak briefly , this is the of the change climate .
the speech of the Throne said that the government work with the other levels of government for respect the commitment took by our country to Kyoto .
for those who have need that be the their remind , the commitment took to Kyoto was a way for the country , there including the Canada , who not had not respected the commitments took to Rio of save the opposite .
is close of a decade that the country have agreed of reduce the shows of gas to effect of greenhouse and the Canada , between other country , not has still established no plan .
this that I to say is very simple .
the cost of the damage occur by the disasters natural in the world double all the five to 10 years .
in 1960 , they the chiffraient to least of 10 billion of $ by year .
, this , they the chiffrent to more of 70 billion .
the year last , the companies of assurance to the Canada have should pay 1.5 billion of $ .
the hon. Normand Normand :
I have led my career of lawyer in miscamingue .
I me am even mesuré , during of a election federal , and that for my more great they , to Gilles , the son of Réal , as be the was all that - there .
today today , he rest 38 days before of open the champagne that many dégusteront the 31 December for fêter , to midnight , the a in a other century and a other millennium .
yet , the fruit Policy of the States - United to large price , who garniront the plateau , recall to several that they not can more travel as that before to the outside of the country .
in effect , the dollar Canadian has descended of the third of his value since the years 70 , which a good part during the three past years .
the employees ordinary are doctoral in $ Canadian .
their they , who exporting more to the States - United , voyagent .
for that the property - fortunate benefit , the grandchildren are to the regime because their salary worth 50 under for each dollar win by the Americans , and they must pay 1.50 $ for each of their worth in from of the States - United .
I know that the be will me say : " Tu just of the miscamingue .
well well , not ! De a side , he not is not question of saturer the market artificiellement of earners .
but of the other , I note that the speech of the Throne not or nothing to those who the concerned of the health of our dollar .
the government not seems hardly the énerver .
the year last , the Prime Minister the restricting to to that this not is not serious if the people Canadian not can the to to the States - United , since they are to the New - Brunswick .
I am well in favour of the Canadians people in them of first .
I acknowledge that a economy well managed starts by itself - even , but I wish to say that I not like not not more the kind of résignation who is to say that if the Canadians can go to the New - Brunswick or , to this that - that , across , to the Canada , they not have not to the concern .
what inspiration and what vigour is be in the speech of the Throne ? Position response is simple : of the parcels and of the miettes .
for in create , he would reduce the taxes .
however , each time that the be about the Prime Minister and his ministers to this about , they find always of the reasons for delay the time of act .
, the contrary , the Canada tolère a rate of unemployment high by report to , of our seat of the south , a burden tax accablant , a disette of households and a absence of jobs for the young .
comble of all , our drain the more drama émigrent to the States - United for two reasons : of the best salaries , because that doctoral in money American , and least of taxes to pay .
he there has also of many drain foreign who say of work to the Canada for the same reasons .
Peter C . Rosemary , a great writer and observer I , has wrote for of the decades on the economy Canadian .
in a section released in the section Affairs of the Ottawa Citizen du17 November 99 , Mr. Rosemary has said that the chairman of Newbridge Networks , John Roth , had reason when he has said recently that the rate of tax on the income of the special in effect to the Canada cause the drain to the States - United of the academic the more competent and brilliant of our country .
Mr. . Rosemary has said that , in the last number of the Ivey Business Journal of the started of Western Ontario , John Roth has comparé this loss to the of Gretzky of the high Technology .
who more is , Migu Roth , only 28 of the 400 does senior of Newbridge live to the Canada .
honourable senators , you have certainly received yesterday , all as I , a release of the Cercle national of the journalists , for we announce that , which I just of you speak , John Roth , chairman and Leader of the leadership of Newbridge Networks , will a conference Wednesday , the 1 December 99 , to Ottawa .
the theme of his conference is the following : " Pourquoi the Canada loses he not only his more great talents and his positions the better paid , but also his leaders of leadership of the industry ? "
therefore , on a sure plan , the government répand a half - truth .
we vendons 85 per of our exports to the States - United and a dollar low we advantage to this level .
but the revers of the gold , this is that the government escamote and refuses of would that we achetons also 75 per of our worth of the States - United and that we must pay almost 1.50 $ Canadian for each dollar American .
these small cycles of the dollar engloutissent of the amounts extremely important of our have .
of the States - United , to the over of the six first months of 99 , we have importing for 25,8 billion of $ in vehicle under , print of alternative and equipment stock , and that for close of 22 billion of $ in bouilloires and machinerie dissent for the great industry .
a other component essential of our worth is the equipment power and the aircraft of registration for which we have versé11,7 billion of $ to the States - United in six months .
that a other study , the price of the magazines American sold to the Canada has increased of 83 per to the over of the last year .
of more , when we vendons to the States - United our Contents first , which our - and our aluminium in vrac , we the rachetons very often into in the products myriad , in versant a double penalty if our dollar is low .
in our Access - eat , the price of the fruit and of the légumes , in majority of importation American , has increased of 30 per since 1992 , then that , of the grain has increased of almost 25 per .
we glorifions our voisinage with the States - United for describe our way of life , similar to the their , and in even time we we serve of the States - United for we distinguished , réaffirmant to who to the hear our identity own .
the trade to the detail , the transportation Air , the sports , - have - we enough heard speak of the problems of the hockey majeur auCanada - the research scientific , the Arts , the television , the culture and the edition we shows that we résistons difficulty to the attrait American .
the government has said , until here , that the rate of change low of the dollar Canadian favorisait the exports .
this pleasant of the dollar created a part of the more Rural of instability .
he me seems important of out under a other contempt that the Americans not only who our country , but that they are also in are of the buy cash , to the Room and in bloc , well that he not be not to sell .
they are with Lower on our businesses because that their price is up there in reason of the peerage health of our dollar , beg - I , more low even that " the piastre to Caouette " .
in a section of Position Presse of the 16 October last , be fact say Mr. Mundell that the loss of the third of the value of the dollar Canadian since 25 years equivalent to a reduction national of salary .
the being deterrent as a such dévaluation of cake .
he move , in addition , to the Canada of abandon his policy of fluctuation Monetary and of adopt a rate of change fixed with the dollar American .
Richard Harris , professor of economy to the University Simon Fraser of the British - British , support this inexorably and the recorded in the net minority who not there with that of the benefits .
a such blocage not created not the unanimously .
not the not deterrent , I not to nothing recommend .
however , I know that the increases and the small of the dollar provoquent of the enrichissements instantanés .
how of our citizens , who have least of flair for transfusion the humeurs of the météo economic , the getting also !
I not can not think to the first without internalize of the sadness for the seconds .
these variations subites and prononcées of the huard have a bad effect psychological .
in effect , must - I remind that 85 per of our exports will to the States - United , but that 75 per of our worth in from also ?
that the be not say not that , portion that the Canada attempts , all will for the better in the better of the mondes .
I with a other question .
I think to Imasco who , he there has to only few days , has sold Pharmaprix to the Quebec and Shoppers Drug Mart , to the Canada .
the by of property Canadian by to view of i .
I thinkers that this will to the Canada .
think to the plant of montage of under of GM to Boisbriand , institution as under respiration artificielle since 10 years and where the employees speak constantly of their fear of a closure imminente .
the Canada has of a prosperity uncommon , but he plays on the chord raide .
this is because that our power of Purchase collective has decreased since few years that we have lost of the jobs , that our young the concerned of their future and that we lisons of the from of concern in the media that I can from the sonnette of alarm .
a not of insulting more far , I know that some than to the Canada of follow the example of the Union European and of adopt a " common who would the dollar American .
one , we not in are not that .
I believe that a great majority of between we , Canadians of the a or of the other language , have too invested in our have national for renier our identity .
this is for this reason that we whether of we - , without distinction , under the flag American .
these measures only will to the Canada of as his reputation .
honourable senators , I am course that this is the wish of all the members of this House .
all , we want Cr to our children a country in full prosperity .
this will only a action of has and of vigour who moves the performance of our economy .
now that the government seems have dominé the inflation and have ' end since two years to the policy of the Budgets déficitaires , core a dollar Canadian to the niveaude 66 cents American is for .
Authorized to the Committee of use the documents and evidence collected during of the review of the bill of bill precedent for the study of the bill of bill present
the order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Oliver , seconded by the hon. Senator Di Nino :
that the documents received and the evidence heard by the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional to the over of the study of the Bill bill S - 17 , Act amend the Code criminal relatively to the harassment criminal and to of other issues other , during of the first session of the 30 - sixth Parliament , be removed to the Committee , when he will was set , for the its study of the bill of bill S - 6 . - (
the hon. Senator Cools ) .
the hon. Donald H . Oliver :
honourable senators , the Senator Cools has yielding his place and I wish take the speak .
for conclude the debate on this motion , I like you refer to the ...
the hon. Sharon Carstairs :
honourable senators , I am to interrupt the Senator Oliver , but the debate must be adjourned to the behalf of the Senator Cools .
if the Senator Oliver wants of the closing , the hon. Senator not will not the possible of the express .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
the Senator Oliver :
the Senator Carstairs :
this is very well , honourable senators , to condition that the Senator Cools not available not take the speak .
I not wish not to speak now and I am fully interested to listen the Senator Oliver .
the Senator Hays :
since the Senator Cools has of the agreed , the Senator Oliver can there go of the speech .
the Senator Oliver :
honourable senators , for closing the debate to on this motion , I like draw your attention on the paragraphs 874 and 875 of the sixth edition of Beauchesne , page 250 .
they say this who following :
the Committee who not has not debated the inquiry to the end of a session can to report to the House of this fact , and that of the evidence that he has heard .
he can in addition recommend that to the session next the House him policies the even matter and that he can the serve of the evidence recueillie until - that .
, least that the House not the allows to in to that , a Committee not can to report of the evidence people before a Committee similar during of a session order , except under form of appendice .
he is clear that the evidence received by a Committee to the over of a session before can be removed to a Committee to the over of a new session with the leave of the Senate .
the comment 875 specific that this is all to fact acceptable .
he for that in the absence of the approval of the Senate , the Committee not can to report of the evidence if this not is under form of appendice .
if be squeal the Authorized of the Senate for that the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional can to the evidence received relatively to the bill of bill S - 17 to the over of the last session in the framework of the study of the bill of bill S - 6 during the session current , the Committee could then use fully the evidence already collected .
the practice British support also the acceptability of my motion .
the nd edition of Erskine Erskine , to the pages 635 and 669 , for that the reports or the proceedings - Minutes of evidence of committees precedents who are périmés are frequently removed to of the committees ultérieurs and that be on and the study of interpellations who not had not was completed to because of the prorogation of the Houses .
in addition , more of 10 precedents have was through for this practice to the over of the 10 past years and I have drew the attention of the honourable senators on the a of these précédentsle 3 November last .
the reason for which this practice is acceptable is all to fact obvious .
as I the have mentioned the last time that I have raised the question to the Senate , the fact of to to of the reports and evidence already received by a Committee to the over of a session before of be removed to a Committee student the even question to the court of a new session savings of the time and of the money , and this is therefore a practice will .
why such that a Committee call to new of the witnesses who have already appeared to this about ?
we gaspillons their time and the money of the taxpayer .
some of these witnesses have appeared to the costs of the Senate and we should their ask of appear to new , still that to the costs of the Senate .
of more , the honourable members of the Committee have already spent many of their time asset to the audition of these witnesses and to the study of the questions .
why should - we their ask of take still more of their time for hear the same evidence ?
he not there has no reason for justify that the of that of the precedents have already was through for to the type of motion that I have proposed relatively to the bill of bill S - 6 .
I have also consulted Beauchesne to of know this that he said of the instructions to the Committee in view of be to understand the concern raised to this regard by the Senator Cools .
the mentions appropriate listed to the paragraphs 681 to 685 of the pages 210,000 and 211 .
in the nd edition of Erskine Erskine , he is question of the instructions to the pages 515 to 519 .
honourable senators , the motion that I its not is not of the nature of a education such that the while Beauchesne and Erskine Erskine .
a education is a motion Motion a Committee to chamber someone something who him would other banned or him enjoignant of chamber someone something which he could other the alone .
the authorities adequate also of the policy of instructions await .
the paragraph echoing to the page grew of Beauchesne for :
is out any education who not the quoted not to the content of the bill of bill or who will to the with of the subject .
the motion that I its not allows not the Committee to chamber someone something who him would other banned .
all the committees are given to may of the witnesses and to was of the evidence .
the only something that the Senate allows the Committee to chamber , this is of use the evidence already recueillie by a Committee to the opportunity of a Senate before in the framework of the study of a bill of bill .
the authorities in s of procedure and the practice of the Senate indicate clear that my motion is valid .
the logical and the efficiency justifying that the be continues of there approach .
the Hon. the Speaker Acting :
you pleasure - he , honourable senators , of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
Affairs Social , Science and Technology
motion Motion the Committee to study the facts new regarding the Suicide and the assistance to the suicide - Adjourned of the debate
the hon. Sharon Carstairs , pursuant to the notice of the 18 November 99 , move :
the legislation in which have was with in implement the recommendations unanimous made in the report ;
2 . - evolution to the Canada of the different questions scrutinized in the report ;
3 . - evolution to the abroad of the different questions scrutinized in the report .
that the Committee its the report final to the more later 6 June 2000 .
- honourable senators , to that the objective of the under - Committee be clear for the senators , I like that they understand that during the period from of June 1995 to today today , someone 25 . copies of the report " De the life and of the death " have was drafts .
he is became the about of a sure number of over of schools of medicine and fact now part of their documents of as for the questions of Suicide and of assistance to the suicide .
however , I not have not the intention of review the decisions major of this study related to the Suicide and to the assistance to the suicide .
I hope that this study will only the decisions taken of way unanimous .
honourable senators , to condition that the motion receiving the agrément of the Senate , the study would this .
it would the point on the of of the care palliative to the Canada , there including the of of Progress of the implementation in implement of the recommendations unanimous of 1995 of the Committee .
it would the point on the of of the control of the pain and of the practices of sédation to the Canada , there including the of of Progress of the implementation in implement of the recommendations unanimous of 1995 of the Committee .
it would the point on the of of the refusal and of the v. of the treatment of survival to the Canada , there including the of of Progress of the implementation in implement of the recommendations unanimous of 1995 of the Committee .
it would the point on the of of the guidelines advanced to the Canada , there including the of of Progress of the implementation in implement of the recommendations unanimous of 1995 of the Committee .
it would the point on the of of Progress of the implementation in implement of the recommendation unanimous of about of the research regarding the requests of assistance to the suicide to the Canada .
it would the point on the of of Progress of the implementation in implement of the recommendation unanimous of about of the research regarding the requests of Suicide to the Canada .
it would the point on the of of Progress of the implementation in implement of the recommendation unanimous of create in the Code criminal a new Leader of convicted for murder to the third degree .
it would also the point , the case if , on the information domain in the annexes of the report , there including the events Smokers , the jurisprudence and the evolution of the question to the abroad .
honourable senators , I not think not that a assistance of the outside of the Library of the Parliament be necessary for throughout the study of this Committee .
I like enter our business without delay - with the approval of the Senate , well course - of such so that we can to our report the 6 June 2000 .
he not should not there have of travelling , honourable senators , well that I like have use to the held of vidéoconférences .
I have asked to the Clerk of the Committee of take a budget , because that the question me we always in my other life .
the hon. ë A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , the hon. Senator Carstairs would - it of provide a precision ?
the Senator Carstairs :
yes .
the Senator Kinsella :
, the words of the motion which we are before , the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology the encountered of this activity .
the Committee not could - he not exercise the powers which he has in under of the Rules for form the group responsible of the review to from of the members by part of the Committee ?
the Senator Carstairs :
well course .
in this time , however , he not there has that two members of the Prime Committee who members to the Committee of the Affairs Social , be the Senator Lavoie - Roux and I - even .
I souhaiterais that to the meetings on this question , he there has , addition the five members of the Committee of the Affairs Social , the honourable senators Corbin , Keon , DeWare and Beaudoin .
I have issue the question with these senators , and they me have said that they would participate to the review .
the Senator Kinsella :
honourable senators , I does the comments of the Senator Carstairs to this regard .
he the is that I using this report on the life and the death in my over to the university .
I have discovered that the students not are not forced of be the information in the come American .
the dissertations that they me constrained indicate that they terms many of this report .
this by , we will a real contribution permanent in a field also criticism .
( on the motion of the Senator Kinsella , the debate is adjourned . )
Banking and trade
Authorized to the Committee of study the situation of the regime financial domestique and international
the hon. Leo E . Kolber , pursuant to the notice of the 18 November 99 , move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Banking and of the trade be authorized to to , to of in to report , the situation current of the regime financial domestique and international ;
that the documents and evidence collected to this about to the over of the first session of the 30 - sixth Parliament and all other document Parliamentary and testimony relevant regarding obedience about be removed to this Committee ;
that the Committee be authorized to to the with of his deliberations public by the media of information electronic , in disruption the least possible his business ;
that notwithstanding the practices considered , the Committee be authorized to table a report interim on obedience about with of the Clerk of the Senate , if the Senate not seat not , and that obedience report be being have was tabled to the Senate ; and
that the Committee its the report final to the more later 31 December 2000 .
( the motion is agreed . )
( the Senate the adjourned to the Wednesday 24 November 99 , to 13 p.m. 30 . )
debates of the Senate ( Hansard )
wondering Session , Session st ,
volume 6,401 , Issue 11
the Wednesday 24 November 99
the hon. Rose - Marie Cool - Losier , Speaker Pro tempore
table of the Contents
' ' '
question of privilege
notice
the Late of Jeannine Séguin - Late of Omer Deslauriers
tributes
the tenth anniversary of the commitment of eliminate the poverty
Affairs routine
Affairs legal and Constitutional
Tabled of the Prime report of the Committee
Peoples aboriginal
Tabled of the Prime report of the Committee
Energy , environment and resources natural
Tabled of the Prime report of the Committee
privileges , regulation and procedure
Tabled of the Prime report of the Committee
Presented of the second report of the Committee
Presented of the third report of the Committee
Finance national
Tabled of the Prime report of the Committee
bill of bill on the protection of the information personal and the documents electronic
notice of motion ordonnant to the Committee which the bill of bill is referred of the scinder in two
Affairs legal and Constitutional
notice of motion Motion the Committee to Services of the staff
Affairs Social , Science and Technology
Banking and trade
Energy , environment and resources natural
notice of motion Motion the Committee to study of the questions provisions to the mandate
notice of motion Motion the Committee to Services of the staff and to the adjourn
the data of the census
Presented of Petitions
PERIOD PERIOD question
the Affairs foreign
the increase of the Estimates of would in the Estimates Supplementary of the Estimates ( A ) - Position possible of open of new celebrating
the justice
the Affairs Intergovernmental
the conditions of a next referendum Quebec - - impact of the initiative of the government
the economy
the Purchase of major companies by of the businesses U.S. - Position policy of the government
the Affairs Intergovernmental
the Quebec - - approach possible to the institution of conditions regarding the held of a referendum
the Quebec - - conditions possible of a referendum - Position participation of the other provinces
the Defence national
the lobbying white of 1994 - Position policy of the government
the Alternative of the helicopters Sea King
the closure of the army Cornwallis - Position clawback of the impressively commémoratifs of the chapelleSt. George' s
order DAY THE
bill of bill on the protection of the information personal and the documents electronic
second Reading - Continued of the debate
referred of the substance of the bill of bill to the Committee
Affairs Social , Science and Technology
Authorized to the Committee of sit in even time that the Senate
bill of bill of 99 on the implementation in implement of conventions tax
second Reading
referred to the Committee
question of privilege
decision of the Speaker
the freedom religious in China in report with the pactes international of the Nations Nations
inquiry - Adjourned of the debate
Peoples aboriginal
the Board Royal of inquiry on the Peoples aboriginal - Autorisation to the Committee of study the recommendations and of apply the you and the evidence of the session before to the study current
Affairs Social , Science and Technology
Authorized to the Committee of study the of present and the prospects of future of the agriculture
Authorized to the Committee of Services of the staff and of the adjourn
Authorized to the Committee of to the Electronic of his deliberations
the SENATE
the Wednesday 24 November 99
the Senate is met to 13 p.m. 30 , the Speaker good tempore the to the Chair .
prayers .
question of privilege
notice
the hon. Lise Bacon :
honourable senators , you have received notice of a question of privilege that I have raised pursuant to the paragraph 43 ( 5 ) of the Rules , who said this :
as that he receives a notice in under of the limited ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) this - with , the Greffier of the Senate the fact publicize managed and does to the office of each Senator , to Ottawa , a copy of the notice distinct and of the translation .
I there that all the senators have received this notice .
the question of privilege with the identifies in some media , which - Soleil of Quebec and the Toronto Star of today today , of the second array of the report of the Committee Standing of the transport and of the Communications on the Divestiture of the industry air to the Canada .
today today , I have the intention of to this question to the time timely and of propose that the case be référée to the Committee Standing of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure .
the Late of Jeannine Séguin - Late of Omer Deslauriers
tributes
the hon. Jean - Robert Gauthier :
honourable senators , this is with sadness that I have learned the Late deMme Jeannine Séguin , teacher of training .
Ms Séguin was considered as the a of the more solid pillars of the community local , national and international .
the Ontario French , all particularly , loses a Leader of leadership and the Canada is in deuil of a woman strong who has affected the education in language French , of the Maritimes to the " of the Western .
I have known personally Jeannine Séguin and I him so today today tribute for the dedication to the because French .
Ms Séguin has chaired the Association of the teachers franco - beneficial , the Association Canadian - French of the Ontario and the Federation of the communities francophones and acadiennes of the Canada .
it the out by his great determination , the entêtement and a sense of the operating policy outside fine .
it had spent his life to the education , to the promotion of the unity Canadian and to the development of the institutions éducatives in language French .
the year 99 has dismantling the departure of two great advocates of the community Ontario .
, the spring , Omer Deslauriers we quittait .
this man , to the like of Ms Séguin , the was distinguished by the support to the because of the accessibility of the francophones beneficial to the services of education and of health .
we are today today in deuil of two people who have dismantling our community .
the tenth anniversary of the commitment of eliminate the poverty
the hon. Erminie J . Cohen :
however , to the place of be been , the poverty in the children the is increased of 60 per to the over of the last decade .
and , 460 . children about are in a situation by .
our efforts for to people the poverty in the children have was déplorables .
yesterday night , I have in to a vigile in silence before the Flamme eventually for pleurer the inability of the Parliament of the Canada of respect the commitment to the regard of the children poor .
I about today today , honourable senators , to the behalf of the hundreds of thousands of children of our country rich who continue of live in the poverty , to go to the school the much vacuum and to live in of the housing délabrés .
they forsaken on the government for respect the speak of the Parliament and to his promises , but this promise has was Constitution .
, the over of the last decade , the rate of unemployment high has was pointé of the doigt as the a of the major causes of the number growing of children alive in the poverty .
yet , then that the rate of unemployment have began to cut , the poverty in the children has continued of increase .
why ?
with this leverage amount , it must the urban , the esteem and the vêtir and that the child .
the children poor are opposite all the legalities to the even sad reality .
how can - they centrer their attention on the learning when they live in of the conditions also déplorables ?
they not can not be on a boyhood without included .
be note of the warning of by , of bad health , of behaviour antisocial and of the delay in the learning of the vocabulary .
this is unacceptable in a country who the vaunts of have a level of life higher .
the rate of poverty to the Canada is almost bashful .
, the over of the last decade , honourable senators , the government has reduced of way would the funds paid to the provinces for of the needs basic - for the services social , for of the housing done , for of the care of health and for the education .
the reform of the insurance - unemployment an particularly the women which the Eligibility to the benefits has reached the more senior level in the history the year last .
be has eliminated the deficit to the backs of the programs social .
in fact , our political national have virtually forsaken the children to their fate to the over of the past years .
, the enter of a new millennium , I implore the government of to the promise made to our children , promise who not would never should stay letter morte .
he there has a ray of hope : the recent announcement of a you of six million of $ in the housing social .
add - there of other are and affectons - the to the investment to long term , to the support of the income and to the services for to the children to of improve the condition of the without - from , of remanier the insurance - employment in in atténuant the requirements and in rolls the number of the people eligible .
let seriously the role drives of the government federal with of the provinces in s of Benefit of the programs social .
the discussions should to not not on the sharing of the powers between the government federal and the provinces , but rather on this that the governments can to , together , for help the people in the need , because he must the remind that the children of today today are the leaders and the taxpayers of tomorrow .
they deserve many better .
we have a obligation to them and to the Canada .
Affairs routine
Affairs legal and Constitutional
Tabled of the Prime report of the Committee
the hon. Lorna Milne :
honourable senators , pursuant to the section 104 of the Rules of the Senate , I have the honour of table the Prime report of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional , regarding the Estimates incurred by the Committee during the first session of the 30 - sixth Parliament .
( the text of the report is in the Journals of the Senate of today today . )
Peoples aboriginal
Tabled of the Prime report of the Committee
the hon. Charlie Watt :
honourable senators , pursuant to the section 104 of the Rules of the Senate , I have the honour of table the Prime report of the Committee Senate Standing of the Peoples aboriginal , regarding the Estimates that the Committee has encourues for the first session of the 30 - sixth Parliament .
( the text of the report is in the Journals of the Senate of today today . )
Energy , environment and resources natural
Tabled of the Prime report of the Committee
the hon. Mira Spivak :
honourable senators , pursuant to the section 104 of the Rules of the Senate , I have the honour of table the Prime report of the Committee Senate Standing of the energy , of the environment and of the resources natural , regarding the Estimates that the Committee has encourues for the first session of the 30 - sixth Parliament .
( the text of the report is in the Journals of the Senate of today today ) .
privileges , regulation and procedure
Tabled of the Prime report of the Committee
the hon. Jack Austin :
honourable senators , pursuant to the section 104 of the Rules of the Senate , I have the honour of table the Prime report of the Committee Senate Standing of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure , regarding the Estimates that the Committee has encourues for the first session of the 30 - sixth Parliament .
( the text of the report is in the Journals of the Senate of aujourd , today . )
Presented of the second report of the Committee
the hon. Jack Austin , chairman of the Committee Standing of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure , its the report following :
the Wednesday 24 November 99
the Committee Standing of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure has the honour of to the
second REPORT
your Committee , pursuant to the section 108 of the Rules and to the ask of the hon. Senator Taylor , sponsor of the bill of bill of interest private the intitulant : " Act amend the Act establish in human moral the board of the former of the section Canadian of the Church morave of America " , recommends that the section 1,106,000 of the Rules not the applies not to this bill of bill .
respectfully submitted ,
the chairman ,
JACK AUSTIN
the Hon. the Speaker good tempore :
honourable senators , when consideration - we this report ?
( on the motion of the Senator Austin , the study of the report is placed to the order of the day of the next Senate . )
Presented of the third report of the Committee
the hon. Jack Austin , chairman of the Committee Standing of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure , its the report following :
the Wednesday 24 November 99
the Committee Standing of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure has the honour of to the
third REPORT
your Committee , authorized by the Senate the 13 October 99 to to a question of privilege raised by the hon. Senator Kinsella regarding a witness who has appeared before the Committee Standing of the agriculture and of the Forestry , ask that , by derogation to the ( 92 ( 2 ) Edward Rules , he be authorized to to of the meetings to camera closed for hear of the evidence .
respectfully submitted ,
the chairman ,
JACK AUSTIN
the Hon. the Speaker good tempore :
honourable senators , when consideration - we this report ?
the Senator Austin :
we the consideration now , with your leave .
the Senator Lynch - Lynch :
not .
( on the motion of the Senator Austin , the study of the report is placed to the order of the day of the next Senate . )
Finance national
Tabled of the Prime report of the Committee
the hon. Lowell Murray :
honourable senators , pursuant to the section 104 of the Rules of the Senate , I have the honour of table the Prime report of the Committee Senate Standing of the Finance national , regarding the Estimates incurred by the Committee to the over of the first session of the 30 - sixth Parliament .
( the text of the report is in the Journals of the Senate of today today . )
bill of bill on the protection of the information personal and the documents electronic
notice of motion ordonnant to the Committee which the bill of bill is referred of the scinder in two
the hon. Lowell Murray :
honourable senators , I give notice that tomorrow , the Thursday 25 November 99 , I move :
Affairs legal and Constitutional
notice of motion Motion the Committee to Services of the staff
the hon. Lorna Milne :
honourable senators , I give notice that , the Thursday 25 November 99 , I move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional be authorized to clerical the services of counsel , technical , employees of office or other elements necessary for to of the bills of bill , the substance of bills of bill and the forecasts budget who him have was déférées .
notice of motion Motion the Committee to to the Electronic of his deliberations by of the means electronic
the hon. Lorna Milne :
honourable senators , I give notice that , the Thursday 25 November 99 , I move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional be authorized to to the Electronic of his deliberations public by the media of information electronic , of manner to him the least possible his business .
Affairs Social , Science and Technology
notice of motion Motion the Committee to sit in even time that the Senate
the hon. Michael Kirby :
honourable senators , I give notice that , the Thursday 25 November 99 , I move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology be authorized to sit for the sittings of the Senate of the Monday 29 November , of the Tuesday 30 November and of the Wednesday 1 December 99 , and that the application of the paragraph 95 ( 4 ) of the Rules be suspended to this regard .
Banking and trade
notice of motion Motion the Committee to sit in even time that the Senate
the hon. Leo E . Kolber :
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate and by derogation to the ( 58 ( 1 ) has ) of the Rules , I move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Banking and of the trade be authorized to sit to 15 p.m. 30 today today , even if the Senate seat to this time - that , and that the application of the paragraph 95 ( 4 ) of the Rules be suspended to this regard .
the Hon. the Speaker good tempore :
leave granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the hon. John Lynch - Lynch ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , then - I ask to the chairman of the Committee why he believe necessary of sit today today ?
the Authorized has was granted , but we would well know in what is - this also important ?
the Senator Kolber :
the Committee of the Banking undertakes today today the review of the problems occur by the gains in capital to the Canada and we begin of very little of time for the complete since we comptons complete our report preliminary before the end of the year .
the professor Reuven Brenner , who has wrote the a of the documents who fact authority in the s , has could the been , in despite of the notice very short that we him have of , and come to Ottawa appear before our Committee .
if we want to our work , we must begin our review to the more soon .
the Senator Lynch - Lynch :
however , I like ask to the chairmen who want that their Committee the while for that the Senate seat of we give a notice more long that , - this .
that we highlights , and highlights the witnesses , in a situation embarrassing .
the work of the senators in this chamber is priority .
the program of the committees must be honoured , as be the has explained to the senators before that they not assume the duties of chairman , of vice - chairman or of member of the committees .
of this side - this , to least of a emergency - and I accept that this be the case today today - we not are not very enclins to give the Authorized and to to that the senators they the House , who is the place where they should be when the Senate seat .
the Senator Kolber :
honourable senators , I not have no doubt that our responsibility first be of be attendance to the House .
we have also the responsibility of to our work .
he not we rest that few days for the to .
this are for the most of the experts well what in their field .
honourable senators , I me in either to your decision .
if the hon. Senator of in opposite to meet our Leader for change the do should to our Committee , be .
the he not to not that we hear our work , be .
however , if really be the is to this that we the hear , that be we give to the least the possible of we there to .
the Senator Lynch - Lynch :
honourable senators , if the chairman of the Committee having of the difficulties with the do who him is should , I to well the satisfy in him in appearing a other , the Monday or the Friday , or in evening for the week .
the Hon. the Speaker good tempore :
pleasure - he to the honourable senators of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
Energy , environment and resources natural
notice of motion Motion the Committee to study of the questions provisions to the mandate
the hon. Mira Spivak :
honourable senators , I give notice that tomorrow , the Thursday 25 November 99 , I move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the energy , of the environment and of the resources natural , in Conformity with the ( 86 ( 1 ) elite ) of the Rules , be authorized to study the questions who could time occasionally the Procedural to the energy , to the environment and to the resources natural in General of the Canada ; and
that the Committee it report to the Senate to the more later 31 March 2000 .
notice of motion Motion the Committee to Services of the staff and to the adjourn
the hon. Mira Spivak :
honourable senators , I give notice that tomorrow , the Thursday 25 November 99 , I move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the energy , of the environment and of the resources natural be authorized to clerical the services of counsel , technical , employees of office or other elements necessary for to the bills of bill , the substance of bills of bill and the forecasts budget who him have was removed ; and
that the Committee be authorized to the adjourn to across the Canada and to the abroad to the for of such reviews .
notice of motion Motion the Committee to to the Electronic of his deliberations by of the means electronic
the hon. Mira Spivak :
honourable senators , I give notice that tomorrow , the Thursday 25 November 99 , I move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the energy , of the environment and of the resources natural be authorized to to the with of his deliberations public by the media of information electronic , in disruption the least possible his business .
the data of the census
Presented of Petitions
the hon. Lorna Milne :
honourable senators , I have the honour of to a petition of the Ontario Genealogical Society , who has was signed by 190 people and who ask this :
... the petitioners concurrence the Parliament of adopt a bill to of preserve the data of the marked of after 1901 , of the give to the Archives national and of to these data and those of the marked ultérieurs to the clause of the public to the across of 92 years , this who is now consistent to the many provisions legislation on the protection of the information personal and to the will in effect to the hour current .
PERIOD PERIOD question
the Affairs foreign
the increase of the Estimates of would in the Estimates Supplementary of the Estimates ( A ) - Position possible of open of new celebrating
the hon. Terry Stratton :
honourable senators , I have a question to for to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
, the beginning of the week , we have had the great happy of meet of the representatives of the Council of the Board for to the Estimates Supplementary of the Estimates ( A ) .
including , we have discussed of the appropriation of the Department of the Affairs foreign and of the Trade international .
the Canada has he open or the without he to open of the celebrating or of the consulates in the world ?
I believe know that he built a new Embassy to Berlin in reason of the transfer of the capital of the Germany of Bonn to Berlin .
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , the Senator will that I not has not of these information .
however , I me entretiendrai with the Minister and I bring the information to the Senator and to this House tomorrow or to the beginning of the week next .
the Senator Stratton :
I in determine and to the Leader of the government .
I believe know that the construction of the Embassy to Berlin costs someone 71 million of $ , and the costs have increased .
however , he rest always a trou of 60 million of $ , in this sense that we know the reason of these million .
we have asked of the explanation to the representatives of the board .
he would can - be better that the hon. Leader be these information of the Council of the Board and that he the tabled to the Senate , because I am puzzling of know to what are will these 60 million of $ .
the Senator Tkachuk :
that fact a very great residence .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I will ask these information to the behalf of the hon. Senator and I rapporterai to the Senate any information that I be in legislation of obtain .
the justice
the cost of the program of registration of the weapons to gun - Position responsibility of the Minister
the hon. David Tkachuk :
honourable senators , during of the even meeting , yesterday morning , Mr. Mr. , of the Council of the Board , has appeared before the Committee for speak of the Estimates Supplementary of the Estimates , in particular of the program of registration of the weapons to gun .
I him have asked a sure number of questions on the reason for which 35 million of $ additional were necessary then that of the appropriation of 40 million of $ had already was some in the budget initial .
Mr. . Mr. has then seemed the cost of the program of registration of the weapons to gun since 1995 .
I have I - even was appalled in something the figure of 309 million of $ .
the government should know that this amount bashful , this is this that number of parliamentarians and of opposed to the program of registration of the weapons to gun him had predicting in 1994 and 1995 , to know that his estimates were very in indicates of the reality and that the program cost of the hundreds of million of $ .
the government has rejected all our protests in saying that we not know not of what we pasts .
the Minister , Mr. Rock , had said that the cost would of only 85 million of $ and this , for any the office of the program of registration , be of 1995 to 2001 .
we in are now to 309 million of $ and this not is not last .
the Leader of the government is - he also of notice that the Minister Rock is responsible of this enormous mistake of calculating who costs of the hundreds of million of $ to the taxpayers Canadian ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I have a interpretation little different of the response provided by the senior official .
the Senator Forrestall :
why not accept he not this responsibility , in this case ?
the Senator Boudreau :
I know that the process of registration knows of the difficulties .
the Senator Tkachuk :
be the has well indicated he there has three years .
the Senator Boudreau :
in reality , a review has was made in May last and of the recommendations have was made for improve the process .
the three quarters of these recommendations have was colleague .
the treatment of the requests of registration is now more effective .
that the information which I has , 8 500 for are délivrés and 35 . weapons to gun are legally each months .
that not does not all to fact to the question that the hon. Senator has raised , but that as really that the process has was examined , that of the improvements have was made and that the system seems operate .
the Senator Tkachuk :
honourable senators , this is always the even history .
they have said that this was the Minister .
I ask now to the Leader of the government to the Senate who is responsible and he does that , well course , the Minister is always responsible , but that he there has had all these problems .
he not there has never of responsible , because that the he there in had a , he bet .
the Senator Forrestall :
hear !
the Senator Tkachuk :
the he not served not his Resignation , this is that he consider that he not is not responsible .
who therefore is responsible to the within of the bureaucracy ?
this is possible also .
the Minister could can - be we say , the he is responsible as he the states , what price he must pay for a if serious mistake ?
why not has he not resigned ?
the he not is not responsible , who therefore is responsible to the within of the democracy ?
can - be the Minister should - he ask the held of a inquiry official for in inform the parliamentarians .
of the Senators :
hear !
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I understand the concerns of the Senator as to the Estimates exceed with in the framework of this program .
the hon. Terry Stratton :
honourable senators , I have a question Supplementary to for .
the government must surely have now a idea of this that will the costs estimate .
will be spending higher million , 800 million or a billion of $ ?
not pays - you not we give a idea of the costs financial some ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I will certainly of the question with the Minister responsible and will on to the House of all the information that I receive .
the Affairs Intergovernmental
the conditions of a next referendum Quebec - - impact of the initiative of the government
the hon. Jean - Claude Rivest :
honourable senators , then that the Canadians the concern of the questions economic and Social , the government of the Canada has chosen artificiellement , in a of his talk improvisations , of bring to the Prime plan the question referendum .
why the government of the Canada has he decided to this time - this of bring this question to the before - scene of the appropriate policy to the Canada ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , if the government Canadian Justice appropriate of express the notice on a question also fundamental that the which we about , the or is absolutely necessary .
the or is required as to about of the nature of the question that to about of the result required for that the process démarre .
as to know what is the better time for raise this question and the to publicly for actually clear the notice of the government , I i that no time not is better that a other , since this not is not for all of on .
the government and the Prime Minister feel can - be that he is timely of with clear as now the point of view of the government of the Canada on these questions very important to the place of expect of be in the gun of the campaign .
the Senator Rivest :
honourable senators , to short term , I not know not if the Minister in is aware , but the initiative of the Prime Minister of the Canada of raise this question àce time - this seems unfortunately people to the advantage of the option spectre to the Quebec .
I not know not what lecturele government Canadian retient of the initiative .
Onparle many of the or of this question .
the Minister etle government of the Canada are - they aware that leurinitiative - taken seems he unilaterally - , far of cimenter the cohesion of the forces federalists to the Quebec , creates unfortunately of the confusion in those who must defend the option Canadian to the Quebec ?
the Leader of the Party Liberal of the Quebec , Mr. Jean Charest , the is dissocié publicly , this after - afternoon , to the Assembly national , of the initiative taken by the Prime Minister of the Canada .
is - this that the government think that this manner unilaterally of proceed in the debate referendum there the because of the unity Canadian ?
not would - he not better that the government of the Canada , the government of the Quebec and those of the other provinces showing a attitude of openness and of understanding for convince the Quebecers of choose the seaway of the option Canadian ?
some Quebecers who uncast without too of conviction for the sovereignty achieving without doubt the option Canadian .
he not must not give of arguments to these people .
the he there had a referendum to the Quebec in this time , this initiative placerait the Party Quebec of a side , Jean Chr of the other .
jean Charest and the Party Liberal of the Quebec not this too of what side with !
in soulevant officially the question of the referendum without consult the Main relates - speak of the forces federalists to the Quebec , the Party Liberal of the Quebec , there - be the because of the unity Canadian ?
in up unilaterally , be déstabilise the Party Liberal of the Quebec and the forces federalists calling .
in January or February 2000 , I hope that this unfortunate incident will about .
the Minister could - he convince his colleagues of the cabinet , in particular the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Affairs Intergovernmental , of avoid of make of the actions who used the because of the separatists benefiting the sovereignty to the Quebec ?
not could - he not attempt of get his colleagues to work of way positive and normal with the together of the federalists Quebec for strengthen the option federalist to the Quebec to the place of the unnoticed , as be has unfortunately could the see this week ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , he is clear that the Prime Minister consider the question important and fundamental for the future of the country .
the notice regarding the had and the separation is formidable .
on this point basic , he not there has not of disagreement .
by respect for the Quebecers who voteraient to a requires referendum , if the Canada and the Quebec have the privy of in have a other , we have a role to play and a opinion to express for to in so that the question be clear .
he any of express this opinion , and I believe that the Prime Minister think also that he must the to know .
some will that the government of the Canada must be a simple observer , a " voyeur " , in all referendum who the déroulerait to the Quebec , even if the question prepared our to confusion and if the results are questionable .
the Senator Rivest :
is - this that the Leader of the government to the Senate it hear by his response that the very hon. Prime Minister of the Canada , Mr. Pierre Elliott Trudeau , during of the referendum of 1980 , not was that a voyeur ?
the Senator Boudreau :
the hon. John Lynch - Lynch ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , we are of determine in what legislation the government of the Canada that play a role in the process referendum to the Quebec .
we have received of the provide conflicting .
if the government not is not satisfy of the question prepared and which by the Assembly national , will he there superposer his own question ?
be will often the word " or " .
in last analysis , who determine if the question is enough clear ?
will - this the government of the Canada or the Assembly national of the Quebec ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , in the drop decision that it has made , the Court Supreme has indicated that the government of the Canada has indeed a role to play in the process .
I have heard , yesterday night , this that the Prime Minister had said to the period of the questions to the other place .
the elements of the matter are still to the study , as the Prime Minister the has indicated , but I am sure that he will know in detail the Position of the government as that he will prepared to the to .
, this time - that , I be very happy of you give more of details that I not can the to today today .
the Senator Lynch - Lynch :
honourable senators , I remind to the Minister that the Court Supreme not has record or judgment or decision , that this was a simple opinion , and that it not has of of guidelines to no government .
the Court Supreme has was called to the deal on three questions domain in a referred of the government of the Canada .
I remind also to the Minister that the province of Quebec has refused of the to before the Court Supreme and that this last has should load a lawyer of represent the province .
, the three questions , the court has answered " not " .
unfortunately , to my notice , the Court Supreme has far outrepassé the mandate in décidant of establish some lines guidelines regarding the question and the result , what that they be .
, my notice , that has woefully for effect of légitimer the separation .
, because of the Court Supreme , because that it has established of the lines guidelines and of the rules on the way which the approach referendum should the dérouler and on this who should come if the result not was not favourable to the Canada , he is became for the first time legitimate of speak of the possible of a separation .
I believe that the Court Supreme has outrepassé that the mandate .
of any manner , why the government federal not we said - he not what question him expression acceptable , not said - he not to the government Quebec that he not treated of the credibility that to the response to this question and not it he not the Quebecers decide ?
what question should - be for to the Quebecers , that the government federal ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , if the be in just never to that , I there that the question will worded by the Assembly national of the Quebec .
I not believe not that the government federal want put to the people Quebec a question to on the separation .
in this who with the decision of the Court Supreme , this is a question of opinion .
the hon. Senator Lynch - Lynch has of the opinion on the comments made by the Court Supreme .
I think that good number it that these comments have was very useful and that they have of a indication of the way which the Canadians wish that their government at to a requires process .
he is to hope that this one not the inquire never .
in the interest of the Quebecers and of the Canadians , can he not never there have of other question referendum .
the economy
the Purchase of major companies by of the businesses U.S. - Position policy of the government
the hon. Donald H . Oliver :
honourable senators , my question the is to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
the year last , the government has refused the proposal of merger of the major Banking Canadian .
we know now that this decision policy has caused of the torts irréparables to the economy Canadian .
the government not has not product of book white or of bill of bill who libérera our major institutions financial of the job regulatory to which they are gives , and that , for their to of support the competition on the scene international .
in the Financial Financial of today today , Peter Godsoe , the chairman and steering General qualified respected of the Bank Scotia , the concern cleansing of the future of the major companies Canadian .
Mr. . Godsoe has said that our major companies open must power support the competition of the best businesses of the Americas and that our political government not must not the pénaliser , but well the encourage to be competitive to the abroad .
the Leader of the government to the Senate can - he we say what policy public the government for to in place for to in so that few - few of our major businesses remain Canadian and not be not all achetées by of the businesses U.S. ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , with the globalization of the economy , we have observers a Among of the investment American in the businesses Canadian .
same , he there has had a Among of the investment Canadian in of the businesses U.S. .
the investment will in the two sense .
I not believe not have the figures to scope of with , but I me commitment to the provide to the hon. Senator as that I the speak .
some people are very decreased before the investment American in some sectors of our economy .
however , of other sectors would very happy of receive of the investment , little any the source .
I think all particularly to of the businesses of the province of origin of the hon. Senator Oliver , who is also my province of origin .
the Senator Oliver :
honourable senators , the week last , Peter Lougheed , a former Prime Minister of the Alberta and a leader of business respected , has ' the Canadians in Access against the erosion of our sovereignty in reason of the - of the value of our dollar and of the negative excessive of the taxes .
that of the sections articles in our newspapers , some ministers important of the cabinet are that the Prime Minister not it obstruction to a debate on the future of our economy .
Mr. . Godsoe has asked to the government the he lancera a debate national on the role of our major businesses .
the Leader of the government to the Senate lancera he a such debate ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , the Prime Minister is this all the days to the other place and can answer to the questions on this about .
by , , he is possible of discuss of this about as to the other place that here .
for this who is of the increase of the investment American in the businesses Canadian , I out that , in some case , he there has can - be place of the concern , but that , in of other , these investment are the welcome .
in some regions of the Canada and some sectors of our economy who not have not had of investment of someone source that this be , the investment American idle to point appointed .
the Affairs Intergovernmental
the Quebec - - approach possible to the institution of conditions regarding the held of a referendum
the hon. Lowell Murray :
honourable senators , my question is supplementary to those who have was raised lines on the intentions of the government relatively to a requires next referendum to the Quebec .
he is clear , of after the about held by the Leader and that by the Prime Minister and Dion , that the government for take of the measures .
what form very these measures ?
the Glenney he of a bill , of a resolution or of a simple statement of principle ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , he is clear that the government think seriously to take of the measures .
in effect , the Prime Minister has said yesterday night in a interview public , that I have had the opportunity of hear , that the government would take of the measures as to the or of the question .
the Prime Minister has spoke of a bill , of a resolution or of a statement of principle who would made by him or a other important relates - speak of the government .
the Prime Minister has said that the discussions the poursuivaient as to the seaway to follow and that he not was not in legislation , for the moment , of say how the government reopened of to point the point of view .
I not can not in say more that the Prime Minister .
the Quebec - - conditions possible of a referendum - Position participation of the other provinces
the hon. Lowell Murray :
honourable senators , my second question with the " discussions in over " which the Minister has spoke .
more specifically , I like know if the provinces involved to these discussions in over .
in the response of the Court Supreme to the referred of the government , he is question of all the partners to the within of the Confederation .
have - I reason of assume that , of the notice of the government , the expression " all the partners " to say the 10 provinces and the government federal ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , the Prime Minister has fact referring to of the discussions in over between his colleagues and him - even .
for the time , I not know not in what legislation the discussions are corridors more far .
in fact , yesterday , I have said that I not would not surprised if the provinces were interested also to express their points of view on of the questions of or .
the Hon. the Speaker good tempore :
honourable senators , the period of the questions of 30 minutes is now completed .
the leave is - it granted of continue ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Defence national
the lobbying white of 1994 - Position policy of the government
the hon. J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , I to know if , yes or not , the lobbying white of the Defence of 1994 remains the statement of Position final of the government present on the questions related to the Defence .
the he there has had of the changes , the Parliament in has he was full or there has he had of the consultation public to this regard ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I believe that the Senator me has asked the even question yesterday after - afternoon .
the Alternative of the helicopters Sea King
the hon. J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , I like for a question general to the Minister .
there has he had a change of policy ?
I me concern of the helicopters .
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , as we in have discussed lines , this program is the great priority of the Minister of the Defence national .
something some , this is a initiative that I support and that I encourage .
I hope that we will in legislation of say someone something of ' in a future grown .
the Senator Forrestall :
honourable senators , yesterday , to the other place , the Secretary Parliamentary of the Minister of the Defence national had this to say to this about :
... it is on the office of the Minister and this is to him that he with of take the decision .
be has said that this was a priority .
why the Minister not at - he not a decision ?
is - this because that he there has a change in the policy of Defence ?
the notes of the Minister to this regard recommend very clear the for for the Alternative of the Sea King preclude to on of ships .
that must - be believe ?
why a decision not has it not was taken , if the statement of the needs is priority and the is on the office of the Minister for that he the paraphe ?
be has created a office for the with of this question .
I like know this that he in costs for to operate a office who not fact nothing .
this is as as a - voiture of move of - to the case where someone a would the in serve a time by year .
what is the response ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I understand the concern of my hon. colleague .
the Senator Forrestall :
I not the think not .
the Senator Boudreau :
course , I greetings his representations to the hon. Minister , who me guarantees to each opportunity that that remains his key priority .
he is to hope that we will in legislation of obtain of the results positive in a future grown .
the Senator Forrestall :
honourable senators , this estle 4 November that I has asked for the last time a question to this about .
the office of life espérée of the Sea King the touch in 2005 .
he will eight years for the replace , this who fact that for three years , we not will no helicopter .
he there has a sure number of solutions .
I like well know if , yes or not , the government will send our ships in sea without helicopters .
will he borrowing of the helicopters to the Shipping American ?
the Department will he about a other program of modernization - God we in Access - of the Sea King , who could can - be to the ships and the quick in danger ?
that will to the government and when will he announce his intentions to this about ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , the Minister is well aware of all the solutions who the may to him , there including those that the hon. Senator has mentioned .
he must hope that the announcement will made to this about the more earlier possible .
this is the response the better and the more complete that I can give to the hon. Senator to this at - this .
the closure of the army Cornwallis - Position clawback of the impressively commémoratifs of the chapelleSt. George' s
the hon. Gerald J . Comeau :
honourable senators , the week last , I have asked a question to the Leader of the government to the Senate regarding the clawback of the impressively of the chapelle to the army Cornwallis .
he has answered that he there had more of world in the capital of the Nova - Nova and that he was therefore better of dramatically the impressively that where more of people can the see .
I not have not could forced the case more far to this time - that .
this apologize me has however angry .
, this that - that , all the trésors of the regions not urban of the Nova - Nova who can be come not should - they not the on to Halifax ?
if the be followed this logical until to across , he would can - be accommodation the when of Évangéline of Grand - Pré to Halifax for that a more great number of people can the see .
the hon. Senator Boudreau , who in now to Halifax , should know that he is offusquant for all the not - haligoniens of hear say that the impressively should be déménagés of Cornwallis to Halifax because that he there has more of world in this city .
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I not have not was also cassant , in my response , that the hon. Senator the has left hear .
, my knowledge , the place where the were the impressively was to all for useful désaffecté since a year , not to was used that a time or two during any the year .
the Senator Comeau :
honourable senators , I have a last question supplementary .
I know that the Minister receives , of former Veterans who are have by Cornwallis and who have paid for the fenêtres , not difficulty of information to the about of the promise that the Department of the Defence national their had made of farming the impressively a time the facilities in place .
I hope that the Minister the tighten seriously on this question .
even the he think to the to to the next election in Halifax - Halifax - Western , me said - be - he not should not let that mess the judgment .
as I like the city of Halifax , the a of the more talk cities of the Canada , as I believe that the areas not urban of the Nova - Nova not can the to of losing their trésors .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I not am not of agreed with the Senator on a point , but I the am on a other .
say that the city of Halifax is the a of the more talk cities of the Canada , I not am not of agreed .
I is that this is the more great city of the world .
the Senator Kinsella :
why ?
that reprochez - you to Ottawa ?
the Senator Boudreau :
for this who is of the principle who seems preoccupied the Senator , I not think not that we stopped that all the heritage of the Nova - Nova be centralisé ; I réexaminerai therefore the question .
the Senator Forrestall :
have - you performance the please - God ?
the Senator Boudreau :
I denying in addition have decided where I me présenterais to of future election .
order DAY THE
bill of bill on the protection of the information personal and the documents electronic
second Reading - Continued of the debate
the order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Kirby , seconded by the hon. Senator Lewis , Honourable to the second Reading of the bill of bill C - 6 , Act to to facilitate and to promote the trade Electronic in perpetuate the information personal collected , used or releases in some circumstances , in for the use of means electronic for bring or like of the information and of the transactions and in amend the Act on the evidence to the Canada , the Act on the were regulatory and the Act on the review of the laws .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I rise to the about of the bill of bill C - 6 .
as you be the see , honourable senators , he not the is not of a Presented in good and properly form to this about .
this is a bill of bill who is since a sure time to the Paper and who has fact the subject of very good discussions .
I for the sponsor of the bill of bill , the Senator Kirby , and that the senators Murray , Finestone , Oliver and Keon , which the interventions we have many drafting to understand the bill of bill .
, the listen , I have have that they appuyaient in the together the bill of bill , but that they entretenaient however some concerns soulignées in particular by the notice of motion presented more earlier today today by the Senator Murray .
I will particularly of the process on the study of the bill of bill C - 6 .
in quality of Leader Deputy of the government to the Senate , I must recognize that I have very forward that he be sent to the Committee .
of the comments me have was made - and I am sure that this was the case for all the honourable senators - by of the witnesses potential who wish appear before the Committee , which some the concerned of the wording present of the bill of bill and would have the opportunity of would the improvements that they sharpest see .
as I the have mentioned before , some of the honourable senators who are we in the debate on the bill of bill have expressed of the reserves similar .
the objective that I is in my quality of Leader Deputy is of ensure to this that the bill of bill be sent to the Committee to that these witnesses can be heard and that we can from to the step next of the process legislative .
however , I acknowledge the need of to place to a debate on the legislation legislative and a notice of motion has was presented in view of scinder the bill of bill .
he there has even had of the comments of the Senator Finestone of our side of the House to the about of the study of a amendment to the bill of bill .
I have discussed with my counterpart , the Senator Kinsella , Leader Deputy of the Opposition , as the for the section 38 of the Rules , to of attempt of find a ground of agreement on the way which be should deal this bill of bill , that given of the concerns expressed by the senators .
this last has has that the better way of attempt of conclude a agreement on the way of deal this bill of bill would that I raises of first the question to the Senate today today for that the senators be well to the fact of my proposal .
if of other senators want to of the comments on my proposal , this is perfect .
then , I inviterai the Senator Kinsella to we to on of his own comments on the proposal - for the period for to the questions and comments - of way to this that the senators be well to the aware of this who the on and why .
the bill of bill C - 6 in is the step of the second Reading and he seems that he be important for the Opposition that he in rest that until to this that we are had the time of we with on some proposals of amendments .
, my notice , he would benefit for this to of power be on the deliberations of the committees relatively to this bill of bill .
this that I me without to technique , this not is not a motion , but rather a idea for a motion possible .
if the honourable unhappy the idea , I speak their ask the leave required .
this is and that I suggestion of deal this bill of bill .
however , before that I it my suggestion , I like say that the author of the motion and the Main intervening for the Opposition should obtain the leave of take the speak .
, as of Leader Deputy of the government , I am prepared to to this leave for facilitate the things and find a ground of agreement to the Senate .
I should also out that this not is not the first time that a proposal of this such is tabled since that I ' this as .
I know that the Senator Frith and the Senator Doody , when they were all the two leaders assistants of their party respectif , had sometimes acted and .
this not is not a situation who should to my notice the represent often .
he the is therefore of a attempt of to current the bill of bill to the Senate all in appearing the flexibility necessary for hear the reserves expressed to the about .
honourable senators , I move , to the outcome of our discussion , that the bill of bill C - 6 be referred to the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology , with education that he in be fact rapportle 2 December 99 in two followed : the Prime on the part 1 and the second on the parties 2 to 5 of the bill of bill ; that the debate on the second Reading has place by the on and led to term ; and that all review supplementary of the bill of bill be made in Committee Whole .
I not to not propose the motion all of on .
we not things generally not of the so to the Senate , but that sounds enough to our way of to for that human not has place of the in concern .
however , I ask to the Senator Kinsella of we give the notice , to the way of a question or of a observation , and I lead then of the opportunity for the question to my turn .
of other senators want can - be the express to this about , including the Senator Kirby and the Senator Murray .
, the conclusion of this discussion or of this debate , I ask then the leave of to the motion which I you have already of the major lines .
the hon. Lowell Murray :
honourable senators , as just of the to having the Senator Hays , me the already expressed on this bill of bill , I ask the leave of answer now to this proposal .
the Hon. the Speaker good tempore :
the leave is - it granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator Murray :
honourable senators , I thank the Leader Deputy of the government of his comments and of his proposal .
as he the has very s said , he there has to the Senate a support General for the principle and the objective of this bill of bill .
however , he there has of the problems are have fact referring some of between we in their speech during of the second Reading .
I can say very briefly this that I have to say and I the say under any contingency of the notice of motion that I have put before you today today .
he me is that indifférent that we renvoyions the bill of bill or , as the has proposed the Senator , the subject of the bill of bill to the Committee this week .
if the Senator Hays think that proceed of the so will for effect of speed the review of the bill of bill and , in particular , the study of some problems who have was raised , I him or my support total .
this said , he there has a point that I not have not very well including .
the Leader Deputy has he proposed a date for the report of the Committee ?
the Senator Hays :
the Senator Murray :
this is this that I would have heard .
I me ask .
the Senator Kirby , the chairman of the Committee , me has guest yesterday to attend to a meeting of the Committee of leadership with him and the senators Carstairs and LeBreton .
, this meeting , we have past in magazine the list of the witnesses potential , this is - to - say the people who have expressed the desire of the to before the Committee for express their points of view on the bill of bill .
as the chairman of the Committee could the confirm , the list is long .
I have said to this meeting that I me intéressais more - if I then me express and - to the quality that to the amount .
I to ensure to this that the major points of view be views and internally in full .
I have found that he not is can - be not necessary of hear all those who had expressed the desire of the to before we .
this is however to the Senator Kirby that revert the task untimely of try of in persuade some that they not have not need of be heard .
this is always difficult .
I to to understand that this would a travestissement of our duty that of try of to about the study of the subject of the bill of bill by the Committee before the 2 December and that that exposerait with reason the Senate and the Committee to of get criticism .
honourable senators , of other wish can - be speak to this about .
I not have absolutely no objection , in principle , to before now the Committee of the subject of the bill of bill and to to to the bill of bill in Committee Whole a time that the Committee will fact report to the Senate .
the government to that the things argue .
however , the he can be sure of accept a amendment who résoudrait the problems who have was raised here , particularly in the sector of the care of health , I would prepared to this that we the considering and to this that we the renvoyions to the House of the Commons to time for that it can the study before the ajournementdu 17 December .
honourable senators , such are the benchmarks of the situation such that I the see .
the chairman or the other members of the Committee have the speak .
the hon. Michael Kirby :
honourable senators , I have I also need of the leave of the Senate for take the speak , fault of what my intervention will normally end to the debate to the step of the second Reading , this that I not have not the intention of to .
the Hon. the Speaker good tempore :
the leave is - it granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator Kirby :
honourable senators , as of as , without doubt because that the Senator Murray and I - even have all two was Leader of s of a Prime Minister of the Maritimes , I am in full agreed with him on all this that he has said .
in some case , the affinités regional are many more strong that the affinités political .
the fact is that of many witnesses have asked to appear before the Committee .
that the be somatotropin the subject of the bill of bill to a Committee Whole or to the Committee of the Affairs Social , the heard that my Committee would two reports , me any little .
the two options we suitable .
when the Senator Murray said that he to alters the question , I believe that he timely the sense that we must we ensure that we understand exactly of what he not in this who with the care of health , and I am of agreed with him .
in the motion that has introduced the Senator Hays , he is obvious that , little any if a date clear is arrêtée , the essential is that we entamions our business quickly .
he would that the Committee seat to be of afternoon , Monday , until in the evening , and that he in it as Tuesday and Wednesday .
of where my notice of motion .
, the like of the Senator Murray , I believe that we must begin to to the question quickly .
as he the said , if the Committee seemed come to the conclusion that a amendment to the bill of bill was justified , all as him , I believe that he would important that the Senate somatotropin the bill of bill to the House of the Commons to time for that it the examine before the summer of ë .
in the together , I am of agreed with the Senator Murray .
I not have nothing to quarrel on the substance of the bill of motion of the Senator Hays , to condition that we can are the mention of the date and all simply there , by wrote or by a agreement between the senators , that the Committee will this bill of bill quickly and of a manner effective .
the hon. ë A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
I believe that we have them and found a model who recueille the consent of the government and of the Opposition to the Senate .
I believe that we should refer today today the bill of bill to the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology .
be the is heard for that the Committee it the work and the it with haste , portion that he has all the opportunities of hear the witnesses that he Justice necessary of may .
as the question has was raised for the debate , the proposal be that the Committee is of to a report in two parties or two reports separate not has not so of importance .
the Committee sonderait the opinion of his members and the decide then .
we are aware of the will parliamentarians that require the participation of the other place .
I am in legislation of say that the Opposition not opposera no barrier for to know to the other place that a good report has was prepared and a excellent decision taken by the Senate .
for this who is of the procedure , seen that I have the speak , I would happy of propose a motion , to least that a other Senator not available speak on the question .
the Senator Hays :
honourable senators , I should can - be would that the senators of this side - this are prepared to amend the motion , to of are the mention of the date of Presented of the report and , of the even the , are the referred to the Committee Whole .
to heard the senators Murray and Kinsella , I believe that this not is not necessary for we .
by therefore , I accept that the motion not contains not of such elements .
if this is this that the Senator Kinsella has in head , I not me there against not , I am of agreed .
the hon. John Lynch - Lynch ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I ask a confusion , because I must by that I not understand not very well this that be we ask .
how the witnesses , who are impatients of speak of this bill of bill that the Senator Kirby , will - they help the Committee to study the subject of the bill of bill ?
I not see not this that all these witnesses , who have of the very to forward to the regard of lapartie 1 or 2 or of a section whatever , will to if the subject is referred to the Committee .
I not understand not this that we me of to .
I not to not brouiller the cartes , but he me seems that we should proceed in two steps .
then , the witnesses the présenteraient before the Committee for speak of the bill of bill him - even .
if we we transformons in Committee Whole , the witnesses who have appeared before the Committee student the subject of the bill of bill will - they to before the Committee Whole for speak of the bill of bill him - even ?
I like have of the clarification to the about of the process and of the procedure that be we ask of follow .
is - this this that the government wish ?
the Senator Hays :
honourable senators , I could can - be answer .
all that is enough new for I , but I had the same concerns that the Senator .
he the is here of a question of procedure .
if the bill of bill must stay to the step of the second Reading , then his second Reading must stay placed to the Paper .
for that the bill of bill rest recorded in second Reading to the Paper , he must stay before the Senate .
the motion is introduced as it the is for that the Committee can study all the aspects of the bill of bill , including the subject , this is - to - say the further of the bill of bill , and for that the bill of bill rest to the step of the second Reading , this who does to the concerns expressed by our opposite - to - opposite to the about of the Division of the bill of bill , this question not to not still was resolved .
the motion allows of proceed to the review of the bill of bill without to of entorse to the procedure .
we have the majority of this side - this , but you have the tools of the yours .
the purpose of all that , this is of try of have a solution in under of the section 38 rather that of the section 39 .
he seems that all will very well .
I hope well that a motion will introduced .
for the reasons that I have mentioned , I not think not that the bill of bill or the study not will compromise of the fact that the Committee will before of the subject of the bill of bill rather that of this last in as that such .
the Senator Murray :
honourable senators , if you the let , I say that the referred of the subject of a bill of bill to a Committee is exactly the even something that this that we had used of to when the study pre was Cabinet to the Senate .
course , we not could , on the plan of the procedure , refer a bill of bill to a Committee before of the have received of the House of the Commons .
however , a time that the bill of bill was tabled to the House of the Commons , for facilitate the study to the Senate , we communiquions the subject of the bill of bill to the Committee will .
, - this entendait of the witnesses as the he had was before of the bill of bill .
he was then report to the Senate .
we were all to fact free , when we were before of a bill of bill , of refer , - this to a Committee and of hear of other witnesses .
more often that other , before even that the bill of bill we be referred by the House of the Commons , we had already from satisfaction of the on of the government as to the amendments , including .
the step of the study in Committee not was often made that for the form , but the formula that we doubt to the Senate , and who sounds to the study of the subject of the bill of bill that move the Senator Hays , has long had over to the Senate .
the Senator Lynch - Lynch :
honourable senators , I not have never heard speak of a situation where the Senate has fact the study pre of a bill of bill who had already was adopted to the House of the Commons .
the Senator Murray :
not , but he there has a sure number of precedents by report to this that the Senator Hays move .
the Senator Lynch - Lynch :
the Senator Hays has proposed that the Committee the before on the question , but that the bill of bill rest here .
the Senator Murray :
this is exactly , and he there a precedent to this regard .
the Senator Lynch - Lynch :
is - this to say that the witnesses who will before the Committee must the " of speak of the about , or will - they , of any way , have in Freshwater a copy of the bill of bill ?
the Senator Murray :
not , they not will not of on to this regard .
the Senator Lynch - Lynch :
is - you in are of say that all that not is that a façade ?
the Senator Murray :
he the is of a mechanism of procedure .
the Senator Lynch - Lynch :
I not see not who fate it of that .
why déploierions - we of the efforts in two steps , then that , in reality , he not the Glenney that of a only and even effort ?
if I am the only to not not understand , I to well me nothing immediately .
I not understand not why the about of a bill of bill which the Senate is before is referred to a Committee who further of the witnesses speak of the about , then that , in reality , this is of the bill of bill which they want speak .
can - they speak of the bill of bill even if , - this not has not was referred to the Committee ?
I not understand not this part of the procedure .
the Senator Forrestall :
he the is of the even bill of bill .
the Senator Lynch - Lynch :
why then not not refer the bill of bill and in conclusion a time for all ?
I not trying not of help the government .
I to simply understand the procedure and facilitate the things .
the Senator Hays :
honourable senators , be has use to this mechanism of procedure for to that of the reserves of the Senator Murray .
the Senator Lynch - Lynch :
that me satisfy , then .
the Senator Hays :
we could refer the substance of the bill of bill , but he at better the read for the second time and the refer as we the do of as .
we have was in communication with the author of the bill of bill and Main intervening , to know the Senator Murray , in opposite .
we in are upon to the proposal , who is essentially a agreement reached of way transparent on the floor of the Senate , to the place of to the senators before a fact accomplished , this who would without doubt raised many of other questions to on of the of the Senator Lynch - Lynch .
the Senator Kinsella :
honourable senators , a brin of creativity is always the by .
the Senator Hays has tried of be losing .
however , we have believed course of to our discussion to the Senate for that all the world understands exactly this that we were .
a great advantage of this way of to , this is well course that , if the two sides of the Senate have a opinion serious and trade on the question of know if this bill of bill contains more of a principle , be can come to the essential through to this that will the witnesses .
we able and be owe by the Committee before of we deal on the principle of the bill of bill .
that a proposition , in fact , that would to solve the problem if the Committee recommended of scinder the bill of bill .
if the bill of bill became with of the proposals of amendment , that solve can - be the problem .
of many opportunities the may to the Committee .
this is a way has of deal the question .
the Senator Hays want can - be to now his motion .
referred of the substance of the bill of bill to the Committee
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , notwithstanding the ( 58 ( 1 ) e ) of the Rules , I move :
that the substance of the bill of bill C - 6 , Act to to facilitate and to promote the trade Electronic in perpetuate the information personal collected , used or releases in some circumstances , in for the use of means Electronic for bring or like of the information and of the transactions and in amend the Act on the evidence to the Canada , the Act on the were regulatory and the Act on the review of the laws , be referred to the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology ; and
that he be fact report in two followed : the Prime on the part 1 and the second on the parties 2 to 5 of the bill , and that the debate on the second Reading has place by the on .
the Hon. the Speaker good tempore :
the leave is - it granted , honourable senators ?
the hon. Consiglio Di Nino :
honourable senators , I to obtain a clarification .
I not have nowhere intention of delay this case .
must - he the unanimously or simply a majority of the Senators ?
the Senator Hays :
honourable senators , the term " leave " under - will the unanimously .
not any what Senator could interrupt this process in denying of me to the leave of to the motion to the Senators .
this is therefore say that he must the unanimously .
the Hon. the Speaker good tempore :
honourable senators , the permision is - it granted ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
Affairs Social , Science and Technology
Authorized to the Committee of sit in even time that the Senate
the hon. Michael Kirby :
honourable senators , if you me in donnez the leave , I will to the Order of the notice of motion .
that given of the motion who just all fair of be agreed , I ask the leave of the Senate to of Authorize the Committee to the meet today today to 15 p.m. 30 for discuss strictly of the list of the witnesses .
we could then begin to hear the witnesses tomorrow to the hour usual , be to 11 p.m. .
, my notice , the Committee want discuterun little to of be in legislation of establish a for of the evidence .
I like that we we occupions of this question to the opportunity of our Senate due , who has lieuà 15 p.m. 30 today today .
by therefore , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the ( 58 ( 1 ) has ) of the Rules , I move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology can sit today today the Wednesday 24 November to 15 p.m. 30 even the he the can that a Senate of the Senate be then in over , and that the application of the paragraph 95 ( 4 ) of the Rules be suspended to this regard .
the Hon. the Speaker good tempore :
the leave is - it granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the hon. Anne C . Cools :
honourable senators , I wish to raise a small question .
I believe understand that the hon. Senator has took the speak for ask the leave of to to the notice of motion .
before that the leave of return to this Order him has was granted , he has proposed his motion .
I not have not of objection to to the leave demandée to the Senator Kirby in the two case .
however , we should be aware that he there would should there have a process in two steps .
the hon. John Lynch - Lynch ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , this is the second time today today that we pass to a Committee the leave of sit in even time that the Senate .
is this that I move to the government .
we should respect the from of the Wednesday and there of closing the débatà 15 p.m. 30 or 16 p.m. , little any where we in are in the study of the issues enrolled to the Paper .
the Hon. the Speaker good tempore :
you pleasure - he , honourable senators , of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
bill of bill of 99 on the implementation in implement of conventions tax
second Reading
the order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Payette - Hervieux , P , seconded by the hon. Senator Robichaud , P ( - Acadie - graduated ) , that the bill Bill S - 3 , Act an in implement a agreed , of the conventions and of the protocoles an between the Canada and the Kirghizistan , the Lebanon , the Algeria , the Bulgaria , the Portugal , the Ouzbékistan , the Syria , the Japan and the Luxembourg , in view of avoid the duplicates Socialist and of prevent the evasion tax in s of taxes on the income , be read a second time .
the hon. ë A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I am very disappointed that the auteure of the bill of bill be still am today today and not can not speak of this bill of bill .
yesterday , I have listened the about of the Senator Lynch - Lynch regarding the bill of bill S - 3 .
he has open the speech by a note very important .
that an the to in s of respect of the rights of the human of a of the country participating of this treaty , to know the Ouzbékistan .
he me seems , honourable senators , that the question serious who should be to the spirit of all the honourable senators is of know if , in as that country , we want send a signal and draw the attention of the authorities of the Ouzbékistan on their to in s of respect of the rights of the human .
the Senator Lynch - Lynch has quoted two reports of Russel Zinn AsiaWatch who parlaient of abuses documentées of the rights of the human and signalaient also that our own Department of the Affairs foreign had in his possession a sure number of documents their to the to unacceptable of this country in s of respect of the rights of the human .
honourable senators , notwithstanding our policy foreign of commitment ' which we have the opportunity of speak of time to other in this chamber , he is question in this case - this of a relationship bilateral .
he me seems that if the commitment ' must mean what that this be , he powerful many if we could say to a country that we are saddened , but that we not are not loans to sign a treaty with him to because of the to within in s of respect of the rights of the human .
this is exactly the reason for which we exclude this country of the application of the bill of bill S - 3 .
honourable senators , the question of abuses concealment and order of the rights of the human not is not a something that we should take to the lightly in as that society free and democratic .
as the honourable senators the know , the resolution 1503 of the Nations Nations about directly of the abuses concealment and order of the rights of the human and of the obligation of all the members of the community international of take of the measures positive and of to their support direct for eliminate this type of abuses of the rights of the human .
honourable senators , this is a opportunity in however for the Canada of start a message very clear and hon. .
we can say that we not retardons not the implementation in implement of treaties to the regard of several country Canadian by this bill of bill , but only in this who with this country in particular , to because of his abuses yearly , concealment and order of the rights of the human .
that we will of say that we not wish not conclude a treaty with this country .
honourable senators , that we were the focus on the conventions of Vienne to on the implementation in implement of the treaties international or on some of the treaties international with the rights of the man , as the Covenant international relatifaux rights Political and political or the Covenant international relatif to the rights economic , social and Cultural , this are all of the treaties that the Canada , to the like of many of other country of the world , has conclude , adopted and ' in implement and we should to attention to the rights of the human some in these treaties .
honourable senators , I thank the Senator Lynch - Lynch of have drew our attention on the fact that the government of the Canada move that we concluions a treaty with this country particular in under of the even right conventional who has chaired to the conclusion of other treaties that we have conclude in s of rights of the human .
I think therefore , honourable senators , that he is angry important that this House it clear know his Position .
we can decide or well of propose a amendment to the step of the second Reading , before of refer the bill of bill to a Committee , or well , this who would better full , now that we have raised officially this question , of refer the bill of bill to a Committee of way to this that the senators members of the Committee the emparent of the question that has raised our colleague , the Senator Lynch - Lynch , and the make that of the representatives of the Affairs foreign and of other witnesses craft before the Committee .
the honourable Jerahmiel S . Grafstein :
honourable senators , I like for a question to the hon. Senator .
I not have or heard or read the speech of the Senator Lynch - Lynch , but the principle that he millions is very interesting .
he we is came of have of the trade to this about , not only here , but in of other representations .
he the focuses on a country particular .
the hon. Senator to - he say that , before of adopt a legislation bilateral in s of tax , we should , as the are of time in time the States - United , to the performance of each country part to this agreed in this who with the rights of the human ?
the Senator Kinsella :
honourable senators , I thank the Senator Grafstein of his question .
I contend in a Prime time that I not see not of generates to this model of monitoring of the rights of the man .
the experience seeing in of many country , including to the States - United , who the have essayée under the regime Carter , the is proved probante , as be the would know .
I accept to reluctantly the principle of the commitment ' .
I am for the good reason that I not know not who the his behind this Administration public .
in the protocoles who gouvernent the conduct of our members of trade or of our members to the abroad , I not see nothing who the for to would by wrote , in their reports apartment or annual , the number of time where they will raised the question of the rights of the man , for that we can exercise a followed administrative work and whether the effectiveness real of this commitment ' .
well that the principle me paraisse acceptable in theory , I not believe not that he be of application Universal .
in the case who we ' , he the is of a convention tax specific .
he the is of a agreed bilateral .
the bill of bill so many of country to the number which the in is unfortunately a who we for to to the question .
in second place , I wish that we be of a precision much in this who has with to these agreements bilateral .
I examinerais for my on the history of each country in s of rights of the man and I déciderais in service of this that I would observers if I wish or not to give on to the agreed the regarding , or still if I not like not use this instrument of our policy foreign for draw their attention on the problem .
the Senator Grafstein :
as must the know the Senator , the States - United have adopted a system , that we not have not still fact ours - well that he seems that such be the intention of the new Minister of the Affairs foreign in his new policy on the security human - in under which a assessment Annual is done by country , sometimes by region , of the abuses choquantes of the rights and freedoms of the individuals .
the 251 of state the attention regularly and they are the subject of debates in the two Houses of the Congress American .
we have favourite not not follow this model .
we have decided deliberately of not not to of links .
I not know not what side of the gold I finirais not adopt to the light of the new policy of security of the people who has was worded by the Minister responsible of the Affairs External and who has was réitérée by the Prime Minister .
however , if we must we Services in this seaway , he would generally better of to a debate here to of to to all the honourable senators of in come to a conclusion as to the seaway to follow , to the place of we in take to a country in particular will by a bill of bill .
I to for the first time a the of i quick to the bill of bill and I note that he there has a or two or can - be even three other country - and I am well attention to this that I say in the here - to about which be can probably say the even something , of after of the sections of newspapers , in about of a form systematic of abuses concealment of the rights of the human .
I for the hon. Senator of in opposite of have raised this question .
before of we to to adopt of the solutions of exception , I rather that he it of the comments for know if we should participate or not to this debate and see if we not should not to systematically under this contempt the bills of bill of this nature .
I comforting then more rassurant of operate that a framework préétabli to the place of proceed that the inspiration of the time .
the Senator Kinsella :
a something who me just to the spirit in response to the question of the hon. Senator , this is that he is necessary of respond drew to the abuses of the rights of the human account to the bad will .
when be the in makes that very clear , he must act for refute these abuses of the rights of the human by bad will .
in the case of a type systémique , institutional or historic of discrimination , I am fully of agreed with you .
he must have a policy more manifold and more general .
that with all the aspects of the policy international , there including the trade international and the dynamic of the interest national .
however , in all the case of abuses of the rights of the human , he not is not necessary of expect a improvement of the situation of the rights of the human for apply to a situation empoisonnée a such systémique or institutional of solution .
he there has of the case where the be can see clear this such of violation and the there deal directly .
I not believe not that this treaty be essential for the interest of the country .
he could however be interesting because that he is always good of have of the treaties with several country .
however , the Parliament could certainly draw many of attention the he announced that he that who a sure country .
he is sure that of the discussions official have had place before that the bill of bill in so to this step and of the questions have should be raised .
the officials the Pakistani also on our discussions and our debate of this after - afternoon and they the features that that the Canadians taking the standards provisions to the rights of the human to the seriously .
the hon. Consiglio Di Nino :
honourable senators , I like continue in the even vein that the Senator Kinsella .
I am of agreed with him .
honourable senators , I believe that we should we with on the question .
the debate of yesterday 1 well to our discussion of today today because that we about of a relationship bilateral with a sure number of States different .
we have an of the agreements , of the protocoles and of the conventions similar with almost all the country to the world .
the Senator Kinsella has indicated that deal with the state who fact the subject of the debate froisse the sense of the to - about , because he the is of a state known for have breached the rights of the human .
however , I believe that the Senator Kinsella appropriate that of the tens of country have the even sad to .
I like also me ensure that we understand that he not the is not simply of sign a agreed .
he the is of sign a agreed who for the Exchange of information on of the companies and of the individuals and that on the Affairs of the Canadians with some of these country foreign .
that me concern , because , very frankly , I not am not confidence to some of these States for that these information remain negotiates .
if I am of the Affairs with a of these States , as this is the case now for the society Talisman to the Sudan , I should accept the risk that some information that my country would to the government soudanais to my about and to the about of my company not be not also danger that they the would in under of the bill of other country of the world .
this is a other aspect that we should to more carefully .
I have raised this question yesterday because that , he there has several months , we have had case to a bill of bill similar to the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign and we have asked the same questions that today today .
I not have not the Appendix that we are never from of answers .
, my notice , the Committee qualified to to this bill of bill is the Committee of the Affairs foreign .
we can an the comments that have made the senators Lynch - Lynch , Kinsella and Grafstein and continue of ask to the representatives of the Department of answer to the questions that we have raised the last time that we have examined a bill of bill similar .
the hon. LoisM. Wilson :
honourable senators , I am pleased that the Leader of the Opposition has raised this question .
it the recorded in the new debate on the Position of the Canada to the regard of the rights of the human .
be has mentioned that the Ouzbékistan , of even that the Sudan and several other country , Ministry a problem .
he seems that be examine these case of way thinks .
I am of notice that be not can apply a policy general who convienne to all the country .
sometimes , of the sanctions are cut ; sometimes , be this a policy of commitment ' .
he can there different strategies applicable to different country .
I think that the Senate has need of a gallery for urge these questions .
the Committee who is in this case - this is can - be the Committee of the Affairs foreign , and not the Committee of the Banking .
he must to that , be here , to the over of a debate full , be in Committee .
I hope that the Committee which this bill of bill will referred will seriously the question and in will on to the Senate .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I not like not prevent of other senators of to this question , but the senators government would that this bill of bill be referred to a Committee .
as he has was presented here , he must be submitted to the approval of the House of the Commons .
I there that he would relatively easy of there to a amendment , in this sense that , if we supprimions , by example , the word Ouzbékistan , he not we would not business .
the Department of the Affairs foreign plays a role to the regard of these treaties , but he in will of even for the Department of the Finance and for Revenue Canada , since this are of the conventions tax .
if the about held to the over of the debate are will , and I not have no reason of in douter , we should we ask why we should negotiate a convention tax with a country who has a sad to in s of rights of the human .
why conclude a treaty with this country ?
the people the more qualifiées for answer to this question are the officials who have been the treaty , who the have an .
as to the question who concern the Senator Di Nino , to know to what Committee this legislation should be referred , I have asked of the information on this who the fact of as .
of any obviously , the legislation could be referred to the Committee of the Banking or to , of the Affairs foreign .
he the can that the Committee of the Banking , after have examined the bill of bill , the somatotropin to the Committee of the Affairs foreign .
of any way , of after this that I have heard to the over of the debate , the study of this bill of bill not the will not without that the be with the questions that we have heard here .
this is to the Committee that these questions must the for .
the Hon. the Speaker good tempore :
pleasure - he to the senators of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed and the bill of bill is read a second time . )
referred to the Committee
the Hon. the Speaker good tempore :
honourable senators , when read - we this bill of bill a third time ?
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I move that the bill of bill S - 3 be referred to the Committee Senate Standing of the Banking and of the trade .
the Hon. the Speaker good tempore :
pleasure - he to the senators of adopt the motion ?
the hon. John Lynch - Lynch ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I attention that the last treaty tax which we have was before , the bill of bill S - 16 , has was referred to the Committee of the Affairs foreign .
he captured the Vietnam , the Croatia and the Chile .
the Committee of the Affairs foreign has fact of the recommendations interesting on , between other things , the protection of the information personal and the ability of the country participating of to in implement with success the parties of the treaty .
he would pity of rompre the interparliamentary that the be is in the report of this Committee in term of the bills of bill of nature similar to a other Committee .
I urge the Leader Deputy to reconsidered the question and to propose that the bill of bill be referred to the Committee of the Affairs foreign .
the Senator Hays :
honourable senators , for this who is of the precedents , to the over of the sat Parliament , two measures legislation regarding of the conventions tax , the projetsde bill C - per and S - 2 , have was examined by the Committee of the Banking .
in the second session of the sat Parliament , a treaty tax , the bill of bill C - 37 , has also was examined .
he has also was referred to the Committee Senate of the Banking .
some have can - be a better memory that I on this about , but I must say , in any her , that be me has explained that the bill of bill had was referred to the Committee of the Affairs foreign because that the Committee of the Banking was surchargé of work .
this is why , that I , the majority of the bills of bill , exception made of the bill of bill S - 16 , have was removed to the Committee of the Banking .
honourable senators , if the Committee of the Banking fact well the work , he can cerner all problem similar to those that the honourable senators have raised , in the framework of the debate on the bill of bill S - 3 .
, the need , be can recommend that the bill of bill be referred to the Committee of the Affairs foreign for there be more ample examined .
I underscored still a time on the fact that he the is of a bill of bill any of the Senate .
this not is not a bill of bill that we have received of the House .
we have a little more of flexibility to this regard .
I think that the fact of refer traditionally the treaties tax to the Committee of the Banking is useful because that the taxation is a aspect important of this bill of bill .
this is the aspect the more important of the bill of bill , but the he is question of a country with which we not want not to case to because of the matter in s of respect of the rights of the human , that becomes a other aspect important .
a country has was appointed , and of other the will to the over of the debate .
however , the better way of proceed in this s is to study of first the considerations tax , then , to the need , to study the legislation to the Committee of the Affairs foreign .
the hon. Consiglio Di Nino :
honourable senators , I think that this not is not very important to what Committee this bill of bill is referred .
however , the of that the bill of bill with primarily of the relations bilateral between two country , the Committee of the Affairs foreign could be , who would the more qualified to the to .
can - be the Leader Deputy of the government will he of agreed with the recommendation be that the Committee is the questions who have was raised to the Senate , be certainly the questions related to the rights of the human , but also the questions related to the confidentiality and the protection of the life privacy in the case of the trade of information with some of these States .
, my notice , we not have not examined these questions to further the last time
the senators here attendance understand all the problem .
each of the committees can to the work and answer to the questions that we have raised .
the hon. ë A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , if the debate of yesterday and of today today must be took to the seriously , this are then these questions regarding the rights of the human to the has international who Heads the attention during the debate of second Reading .
unfortunately , the sponsor of the bill of bill , who has this the debate on the principle of the bill of bill , not the give even not the only of come debate the new questions and of we serve of guide .
I have found education the debate of the the days .
I have well from a report of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign 115 of the 28 May 1998 . - Senator Lynch - Lynch there has fact referring .
he the was of the Bill bill S - 16 , who greats to , which we are now before .
in the sixth report of this Committee , the members of , - this have said have two major concerns .
of first , they have proposed that , before that the government of the Canada its a bill of bill similar in the future , the Department of the Affairs foreign and of the Trade international give the insurance to the Senate that he has by to a présélection of the country participating for whether their ability of implementation in implement successful of the agreements and conventions appropriate .
our Committee of the Affairs foreign the is already focused on this principle .
the Committee could very well decide that he must include in the bill of bill a clause on the respect of the rights of the human .
I believe that this would a legislation welcome and Progressive .
that framework all to fact with the direction general of our debate in second Reading .
the Committee of the Affairs foreign has already examined this solution in the case of a treaty similar .
I am of agreed with the Senator Hays on this that he has said to the about of the part tax because that the second recommendation was on the implementation in place of the systems of data tax necessary in the two country and on the protection of the information personal .
that given of the debate who has had place to the Senate , he would all to fact indicated that the bill of bill be referred to the Committee Senate of the Affairs foreign .
I like even propose a amendment , if I the can , to least that the Senator Hays not change of idea .
the Senator Hays :
honourable senators , to my notice , the bill of bill should of first be referred before the Committee of the Banking , who in étudierait the Main objective .
he could then be referred to the Committee of the Affairs foreign if this is this that the Senate to .
some arguments very valid have was raised .
I not have no objection to this that the Committee of the Affairs foreign is the bill of bill , but he the could well that he there has had a présélection .
he the could that he there has a good reason of include this country or some other country .
the Senator Di Nino :
want - you parier a dinner ?
the Senator Hays :
I not am not player .
the bill of bill has was adopted in second Reading and I have asked that he be referred to the Committee Senate Standing of the Banking and of the trade .
I not have no objection to amend my motion for that the bill of bill be referred to this Committee , then to the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign for a other review .
if the Senate me in give the leave , I believe power amend my motion .
the Senator Kinsella :
with the leave of the Senate , you the can .
the Senator Hays :
I move that be add a note saying " portion that the Committee Senate Standing of the Banking and of the trade it this recommendation " .
this is and that I formulerais the motion .
the hon. LoisM. Wilson :
honourable senators , I would satisfied that the bill of bill be referred to the Committee Senate Standing of the Banking and of the trade , portion that the Leader Deputy the informed of the debate been by this question and of all this who the is past to the Committee of the Affairs foreign .
when the members of the Committee common the bill of bill , they with that these points have already was raised and they will the refer to the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign .
can - we be amorphous that he in will and ?
the Senator Hays :
be must be on the fact that our colleagues to the Senate read the Hansard .
I i that he is possible that some not the do not also been that be the souhaiterait .
I not am not sure of power local this that ask the hon. Senator .
I me commitment to to all this that I can for that the chairman of the Committee of the Banking would the debate of today today .
I hope that he the lira .
I urge the hon. Senator to in discuss with him .
the Hon. the Speaker good tempore :
Senator Hays , your motion relates it Presented of first to the Committee Senate Standing of the Banking and of the trade , and then to the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign ?
the Senator Hays :
if the Committee of the Banking the recommends .
is - this acceptable ?
the Senator Kinsella :
this part not is not consistent to the Rules .
the order must come of the Senate .
the Senator Hays :
I me in tiendrai therefore to my recommendation before .
I move therefore , with the leave of the Senate and pursuant to the section 30 of the Rules :
that the bill of bill be referred to the Committee Senate Standing of the Banking and of the trade and that , a time the study of this Committee completed , he be then referred to the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign for review to this place .
the Hon. the Speaker good tempore :
you pleasure - he , honourable senators , of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
question of privilege
the hon. Lise Bacon :
honourable senators , I have of notice of my intention of raise the question of privilege to the about of the Committee Senate Standing of the transport and of the Communications .
as you the know without doubt , honourable senators , this Committee Standing has was authorized to study the question of the restructuring of the industry of the transportation Air to the Canada pursuant to the order of referred of the Senate in date of the 14 October 99 .
pursuant to the order of referred , the Committee must to the report before the 15 December 99 . availability my Speaker , the Committee has given 8 meetings public during which he has heard 53 witnesses .
the week last , we have interrompu our hearings public and have began the study of the drafts of the report .
we in are now to the third array .
we have well took be of avoid that any publicity be made on our deliberations .
all the drafts were marquées " array " and " " " .
during of our meeting on the first array , I have took well be of distribute of the copies only to the senators attendance , copies that I have then allow to the end of the meeting .
for the study of the second array , I have fact can , the there of our meeting , a copy to each Senator member of the Committee .
contrary to the meeting before , by confidence to the integrity of the senators and of their assistants and be their let the possible of reflect more at to the content of the report , I not have not récupéré the copies of this second array of our report .
yesterday night , few p.m. to only after the meeting of the Committee , I have learned that a journalist of the Presse Canadian had in his possession a copy of the array number 2 of our report .
the Soleil of Quebec , in the edition of this morning , publie a section wrote by this even journalist of the Presse Canadian in which be can read , and I quote :
in a report before be tabled tomorrow to the Senate , the members of the House high , Liberal and Conservatives , the are heard to of to to the carriers American the Authorized of ensure the Liaison air between various destinations Canadian ... ... ...
and the journalist , by mention of the Committee of the transport and of the Communications , on the section in writing :
of the side , the Toronto Star has also released today today a section in which be can read this :
that our sources , be the is to this that the Committee Senate , who is on the point of complete the report , move of to to 33,3p. per the over of the actions of Air Canada as be backgrounds by a only actionnaire , which is now of 10 per , and of to the over of the actions as be backgrounds by of the interests foreign to 49p. per , against 25 per now .
I am prepared to table , if necessary , a copy of the Quorum where the sections mentioned have was reproduits .
honourable senators , this identifies relates it to the good conduct of the business current of the Committee of the transport and Communications .
well that the information étalées today today in the media from of a array of a report who not is always not finalisé , they into of teinter strongly the perception that will the public of our report final .
as I the have already said , our report not is not debated .
we must still discuss of several points .
unfortunately , the identifies and the reactions that it provoquerait could entraver the reflection devoted and enlightened of the members of the Committee .
over - beyond of the damage subis to the Committee that I have the honour of chairman , a such identifies is damaging to the together of the business of the committees of the Senate .
this is the confidentiality of our discussions who is in because , and , by the fact even , the ability of the senators to debate freely of the questions who we are référées .
for to properly this that be we ask , we must have the certainty that the work that we effectuons to camera closed rest " .
nothing of this who the is own in Committee not must be influenced before that the Committee not has fact report to the House .
in the even comment , be ' the about following , and I quote :
is a it to the privilege the fact of publish the deliberations of a Committee held to camera closed or of the reports of committees before that they not have was ' to the clause of the members .
he is surprisingly that a such something so to the Senate , a institution responsible and transparent and who makes that publicly of his activities .
he is therefore unacceptable that be sente the need of to availability to the media of the documents who , of any way , have was people public when the decisions Strategy have was taken .
unfortunately , this identifies just the add to of other events similar who the are déroulés recently to the within of our institution .
the 14 September last , the Senator Andreychuk has tabled a question of privilege that it has réintroduite the 13 October last to the about of a identifies who the would has to the Committee Senate Standing of the Peoples aboriginal .
I hope that we know we ressaisir to time for to a term to these incidents who undermines the credibility of our institution .
a would of respect and of collégialité has always régné to the within of the Committee of the transport and of the Communications .
I have a great respect for the members of the Committee .
this is why I am profoundly surprise that a such something can come .
I know how this identifies has could this produce .
I not know not if this is of way intentionnelle , accidentelle or by neglect .
however , this identifies has had place and is therefore , to my sense , a it to the privilege of the Senate .
I ask that you statuiez in this sense .
I be then in legislation of to the motion next :
that the question be referred to the Committee Standing of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure for that he it inquiry .
the hon. J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , I support the motion which we are before .
a audit with of the senators of our side has product all the reports , we know where the find our copies .
I not is human in particular .
the Senator Bacon has said that he could the act of a identifies by inadvertent or by neglect , or of a identifies deliberate .
this who is important , in the case this , is that the case be referred to the Committee , with the degree of priority that it deserves , to that he not there has no doubt that be has respected the fractious .
that we tirions the case to the clear or not any least that the risks potential .
in this report , we about between other of the degree of control of Canadian by of the interests foreign or by a only actionnaire .
that could give place to of the spéculations who could to wrong not only to the industry air and to the investors , but particularly to the confidence that the Canadians have opposite - to - opposite our institution and the manner which it opère .
the hon. Serge Joyal :
honourable senators , I like me associate to the about of the senators Bacon and Forrestall .
I have the privilege of participate to the business of the Committee of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure .
the question raised by the Senator Bacon is of a some way already consideration to our Committee since the hon. Senator Andreychuk has already raised a question similiaire he there has someone time .
he there has therefore a virus in the system .
if of such situations the proper to short completed , this is that he there has certainly of the people in our group , be not knows not which , who not have not a idea specific of their responsibility .
I me would of draw your attention on the way which the Parliament of the Britain - Britain with of the questions similar .
I like draw your attention on two decisions of the House of the Commons to London who have suspended pendant10 days , without salary , a member who had has the report of a Committee before that the Committee not has authorized his disclosure .
this member , I the as , has was suspended for 10 days without salary .
in a other case , who has was released in October last , two members have fact the subject of sanctions of the on of the Committee of the House of the Commons British , , who has asked the report and , who the has of .
the two have was ' to the fined , the two have was suspendus for of the periods reasonable .
they have should the rise and to of the apologize to their colleagues to the House of the Commons British .
this question is taken extremely to the seriously in our system Parliamentary and in the tradition who we radical .
the reason in is simple , as the has explained the Senator Bacon , and I quote the about of the Committee British :
this is to this step that of the pressure External could be orchestrated for influence the findings of the report .
if the less leaves there to this regard , all the system of the committees special could be has in question .
no of our committees not could chamber his task and to report to this House of a manner valid and responsible if , to the step important and crucial of the drafting of his reports , the drafts of those - this the centrist to lumberman , excusez the expression , to left and to right approvals
he is , by therefore , extremely important - and I taking my colleague , the Senator DeWare , who fact part of the Committee of the privileges , of the Réglement and of the procedure - that these questions , who have was raised by the Senator Andreychuk and the Senator Bacon , can to the subject of a study of the on of the Committee .
we could and we hear not only on the Ethics that we we engagerons all to follow but also , unfortunately , on the system of sanctions that we should to in place for the ensure that of the incidents unfortunate of this nature not the proper more .
this is therefore in this it , honourable senators , that I like support the about of the senators Bacon and Forrestall .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I like add few words .
he is unfortunate that the question of privilege be raised to new to about of facts almost identiques .
I about , well course , of the question of privilege raised by the Senator Andreychuk with of the Committee Standing of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure .
I add that it seems rather explicit , that given of the precedent where the Speaker , to to decide if a question of privilege was based , has quoted the comment 877 , to the page 250 of the sixth edition of the 286 Parliamentary of Beauchesne , who for this :
nothing of this who the is own in Committee not must be influenced before that the Committee not has fact report to the House .
and still :
is a it to the privilege the fact of publish the deliberations of a Committee held to camera closed or of the reports of committees before that they not have was ' to the clause of the members .
in make , Honour Hon. , that seems rather explicit and I you urge also to consider this case as based to that it be referred to the Committee Standing of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure .
the hon. Joan Fraser :
honourable senators , I to support I also the motion of the Senator Bacon .
this is the identifies and not the publication who is to condemn .
the hon. Anne C . Cools :
honourable senators , I like participate very briefly to the debate .
the subject of this debate must be that clear .
the debate is to convince the Speaker that he there has is and well had it to the privilege and that it must to here the any first priority to this question .
for support this that her the Senator Bacon has said , I me for of the initiative , and I the thank of have statement the facts .
in of other words , the content of the bills of report not must not be influenced to the media and to the public before the Tabled of the report to the Senate .
needless of the say , this problem seems to without has and even take of the magnitude , and he is obvious that he respectful our attention .
I attention that the Senator Andreychuk has raised a question similar the 14 September .
I believe have in to this debate .
of new , the 13 October , the Senator Andreychuk has raised the even problem , and I him have managed " my support .
the true question who the with to we , honourable senators , is the of know the he there has présomption of it to the privilege .
I say to Honour Hon. that of many senators seem be of this notice .
decision of the Speaker
the Hon. the Speaker good tempore :
honourable senators , if no other Senator not to take the speak , I rendrai my decision .
I like thank the Senator Bacon and all the honourable senators who have in to the debate .
I me recall that the Senator Molgat , to the months of September last , had was before of a question similar .
I accept therefore the question of privilege raised by the Senator Bacon .
I move that the question be referred to the Committee Standing of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure for that he it inquiry .
you pleasure - he , honourable senators , of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
the freedom religious in China in report with the pactes international of the Nations Nations
inquiry - Adjourned of the debate
the hon. LoisM. Wilson at the speak pursuant to the notice of inquiry following presented the 17 November 99 :
- honourable senators , of the 23 October to the 5 November last , a delegation of seven people hosted by the Council Canadian of the Églises has examined , with the assistance of the Department of the Affairs foreign and of the Trade international , the challenges are our partners Chinese are opposite in the practice religious in China .
the delegates , who are the major Églises chrétiennes to the Canada , have widely puisé in their history institutionnelle centennial with their partners Chinese for study the protection of the freedom religious in China .
among the contacts ultérieurs possible , notons a meeting between a delegation Canadian interconfessionnelle and a group interconfessionnel in China , and a meeting to the Tibet .
the delegation the is made that in the spirit of the commitment ' , in the purpose of share of the points of view on the way which of the laws with the freedom of religion can dawn the obligations international for to the words of the two pactes of the Nations Nations their to the rights of the man that the China is of ratify .
the delegation " that it was it - even on to a of the many agreements bilateral conclude between the Canada and the China and that it had about the missions of assessment of the needs sent in China by the Upper Commissioner of the Nations Nations to the rights of the man , Mary Gairey .
that offer a program overall of cooperation technical in the Administration of the justice , the reform legislative and of other areas of the rights of the human .
for these two weeks , the delegation has visited six cities and discussed of questions with a broad range of representatives of the Church and of the government , there including the under - Minister of the Affairs foreign of the China and the steering of the Board of the Affairs religious .
the or Nations who them primarily on the persecution religious in China , the authorize and the détentions arbitraires , and that the abuses of the rights of the human , are substandard to across the furore of our culture .
the authorize of people for of the reasons political are ensued without no explanation , if this not is that be specific that the it have breached the bill Chinese , and this is generally perceived by the Canadians as a violation of the freedom of religion and of the rights of the man .
some of these or are without no doubt will .
this is the side dark of the life of the communities religious in China .
however , be not specific never this that the laws and the regulations with the religion say and the reasons for which they have was ' in place and why of the sanctions are for for those who the their .
the form of the Republic popular of China result of a history would by the confucianisme , the revolution marxiste and the need of control , of ensure the stability and the order in the management of a country who has 1.3 billion of people and a history and a context well different of the ours .
the delegation not has never visited a city who had least of 10 million of people .
the form guarantees the freedom of belief of the citizens and protects the activities religious normal .
however , it not guarantees not the freedom of the croyants of appreciation or of be this belief and not its not not more this that be will by the activities religious normal if this not is for say that human not can use the religion for the delivering to of the activities who perturbent the order public .
this zone grise ask some of the limits that the Chinese do to the freedom religious which we go speak in riel and , to because of this doubt , those who are law of administering the regulations , particularly in of the regions local very éloignées of Beijing , can exorbitant of these provisions .
the form specific also clear that the agencies church not are not submitted to someone form of mother foreign that this be .
that with to the fact that the China redoute the intentions of the community religious international who has ' to difficulty his sovereignty in the past .
that given of the direction strongly privatized of groups church their of preach only the salut individual in a country who efficiently many of price to the community , particularly when these groups come of Los Angeles or of 17 , they there are raised as a with foreign .
two never of regulations allow of ensure to this that the religion not must not a source of déstabilisation or of threat to the security national .
the regulations clauses of a interpretation that which the freedom is associated to of the rights actions ; in riel , however , be highlights more the focus on the rights individual .
each centre of activity religious is given of the at with of the government and of satisfy to six criteria , be be a place of culte , a leader up , a sure number of adhérents , a Committee of management , a source legal of income and a behalf for a place of meeting .
he is important of attention that in China , all group social is given of the at with of the government , prerequisite who not the limit not to the groups church .
that the recorded in the fact that the be highlights the focus on the rights actions .
of fact , the Art of the Science Social of of has said that the Christian were of good citizens Chinese .
our partners of the Church protestante have up the Council pattern of China , a church post - confessionnelle to the within of which the people seniors the say of former Presbyterians , of former anglicans , and and of on .
this church is fully Chinese in the legislation where it is his origins of the movement said " Three - Self Patriotic " , all as he in will of his Economy , of his Finance and of his covetousness .
the partners see in the regulations a legislation of protection of their activities and a guarantee against any with of the on of Chinese not croyants , as that the is product for the revolution cultural .
through to this protection , the churches protestantes of China are a growth astonishing and their Main problem is to form enough of leaders of ability for satisfy to the ask .
we have met a young woman who , by example , after have received a training of three months , is now - of the direction spiritual de1 . people .
well that minority in China , the Christian of this country are far more many that the Christian to the Canada .
the situation of the Catholic is different .
the churches Catholic legally are désignées under the behalf of Church patriotique and they support the political government , by example the policy on the child unique .
that night to the contrast of the their , since little of families accept that their only child choisisse this service , empêchant the transmission of the behalf of family , even if their " could be " Chinese and Catholic to on full " .
those who , by choice or by the force of the things , the Subcommittee for prier to the within of groups not registered can the to for several reasons : the with of the croyants to a authority or a influence foreign ; the refusal of be confiné to a only place of meeting ; the refusal of the put to the authority of the association of the Chinese Catholic patriotiques or of the Council Chinese of the churches chrétiennes ; or finally the acceptance of the education and of the practices hétérodoxes may of threaten the order public .
he there has also the cultes .
the Chinese are very well the cultes who exist to the Canada and , to the Art of the Science Social , a professor we has reported to the about of the culte known under the behalf of the " concludes of Toronto " , established close of the airport Pearson and which you have can - be already heard speak .
no of we not the knew directly , if well that we find we proud to of the be - said for answer to the questions .
the China has any a bill on the cultes the last day of our visit .
all our partners without exception , of even that the government , indicated the Falun Gong as a organization déstabilisatrice , nuisible and to influence foreign .
that them , this organization is very popular with of the Chinese least educated and more vulnerable , who are can - be still isolated of the modernization and of the benefits of the medicine modern .
our delegation not has not took Position on the interdependent of the movement Falun Gong .
during of our meeting with the under - Minister of the Affairs foreign , Yang Jiechi , I have fact of of various concerns to the behalf of the Minister of the Affairs foreign of the Canada .
first , I have said that the Canadians the inquiétaient many of the authorize , of the détentions , of the bad treatment and of the abuse ill to the adherents of the Falun Gong , which the behaviour public has was not their and copy during their observe ininterrompues .
since the Constitution would to the citizens the right of believe or of not not believe , be has the Appendix , to the Canada , that the Constitution not is not respected .
as and how board - they clear this that is a " activity religious normal " ?
second , the implementation in implement of the new bill on the cultes will it rétroactive ?
third , how the community international can - it be assured that the people opinionated will right to a proceedings equitable and public ?
what scope have the two pactes of the Nations Nations , signés by the China in 1997 and 1998 , but not still ratifiés , on the treatment should to the members of the Falun Gong ?
these questions , of even that well of other that I not have not the time of raise for this short inquiry , not have always not found of answers wholly , but may a possible of continue our cooperation with the China to the about of the freedom religious , that given of the conventions international .
we anticipate that he there will of other delegations and of other trade on the questions related to the faith and to the freedom religious and on the application of a policy regarding the religion , pursuant to the conventions international .
we think that this approach is more facility that a approach who raises of the growing .
we hope welcome to the Canada a delegation of representatives of the Board of the Affairs religious for alters our understanding step of the relations between the Church and the state and for élucider with them the mystery , to know why the Canada not has not need of a office of the Affairs religious .
we anticipate also welcome a delegation of researchers of the Art Chinese of the Science Social , who , of our with our academic , can alters our understanding step of the religion in a society not confessionnelle .
( on the motion of the Senator Wilson , to the behalf of the Senator Austin , the debate is adjourned . )
Peoples aboriginal
the Board Royal of inquiry on the Peoples aboriginal - Autorisation to the Committee of study the recommendations and of apply the you and the evidence of the session before to the study current
the hon. Charlie Watt , pursuant to the notice 23 November 99 , move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Peoples aboriginal be authorized to to a study and to to a report on the recommendations of the Board Royal on the Peoples aboriginal ( document parlementairno 2 / 35 - 508 ) relatively to the service government aboriginal and more particularly , to obtain the point of view of the Peoples aboriginal and of the other it on the questions following :
2 . the mechanisms necessary to the ushered of the new relations structurelles ;
3 . the models of self government aboriginal necessary for answer to the needs of the Peoples aboriginal and for concorder with the new relations structurelles ;
that the you received and the evidence heard on the question by the Committee Senate Standing of the Peoples aboriginal during the first session of the 30 - sixth Parliament be referred to the Committee ;
that the Committee tabled the report final to the more later 16 December 99 , and that the Committee divested the powers necessary to the Electronic of the results of the study contained in the report final , and this until to the 24 December 99 ; and
that the Committee be authorized , notwithstanding the practices considered , to table the report with of the Clerk of the Senate , if the Senate not seat not , and that obedience report be being have tabled to the Senate .
( the motion is agreed . )
Affairs Social , Science and Technology
Authorized to the Committee of to the Electronic of his deliberations by of the means electronic
the hon. Dan Hays , pursuant to the notice 18 November 99 , move , to the behalf of the Senator Kirby :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology be authorized to to the with of his deliberations public by the media of information electronic , in disruption the least possible his business .
the hon. Eymard G . Corbin :
honourable senators , I have a question on the motion No. 11 . If is - he of a Authorized permanent , be the of télédiffuser all the business of the Committee that the good would , or of a Authorized for a end expresse only ?
the Senator Hays :
Senator Corbin , if I have well including , by this motion , the Senate would the Electronic of all the deliberations of the Committee by the media of information electronic , and not only the deliberations related to a study particular , and this until to the prorogation .
the Hon. the Speaker good tempore :
you pleasure - he , honourable senators , of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
Authorized to the Committee of Services of the staff
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) , to the behalf of the Senator Kirby and pursuant to the notice 18 November 99 , move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology be authorized to clerical the services of counsel , technical , employees of office or other elements necessary for to the bills of bill , the substance of bills of bill and the forecasts budget who him have was referred .
( the motion is agreed . )
agriculture and Forestry
Authorized to the Committee of study the of present and the prospects of future of the agriculture
the hon. Fernand Robichaud , pursuant to the notice of the 23 November 99 , to the behalf of the Senator Fairbairn , move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the agriculture and of the Forestry be authorized to study the of present and the prospects of future of the agriculture to the Canada ; and
that the Committee it report to the more later the 29 June 2001 .
( the motion is agreed . )
Authorized to the Committee of study the of present and the prospects of future of the Forestry
the hon. Fernand Robichaud , pursuant to the notice of the 23 November 99 , to the behalf of the Senator Fairbairn , move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the agriculture and of the Forestry be authorized to study the of present and the prospects of future of the Forestry to the Canada ; and
that the Committee it report to the more later the 29 June 2001 .
( the motion is agreed . )
Authorized to the Committee of Services of the staff and of the adjourn
the hon. Fernand Robichaud , pursuant to the notice of the 23 November 99 , to the behalf of the Senator Fairbairn , move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the agriculture and of the Forestry be authorized to clerical the services of counsel , technical , employees of office or other elements necessary for to the bills of bill , the substance of bills of bill and the forecasts budget who him have was referred ; and
that the Committee be authorized to the adjourn to across the Canada and to the abroad to the for of such reviews .
( the motion is agreed . )
Authorized to the Committee of to the Electronic of his deliberations
the hon. Fernand Robichaud , pursuant to the notice of the 23 November 99 , to the behalf of the Senator Fairbairn , move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the agriculture and of the Forestry be authorized to to the with of his deliberations public by the media of information electronic , in disruption the least possible his business .
( the motion is agreed . )
( the Senate the adjourned to 14 p.m. tomorrow . )
debates of the Senate ( Hansard )
wondering Session , Session st ,
volume 6,401 , Issue 12
the Thursday 25 November 99
the hon. Rose - Marie Cool - Losier , Speaker Pro tempore
table of the Contents
the hon. P . Derek Lewis , . C .
tributes to the opportunity of his retirement
' ' '
the Late of Allan Austin Lamport , O . C .
tributes
Affairs routine
fisheries
Tabled of the Prime report of the Committee
security and services of Intelligence
Tabled of the Prime report of the Committee Special
Economy Economy , Budgets and Administration
Tabled of the Prime report of the Committee
security of the transport
Tabled of the Prime report of the Committee Special
the adjournment
Affairs legal and Constitutional
notice of motion Motion the Committee to sit in even time that the Senate
privileges , Rules and procedure
Authorized to the Committee of sit in even time that the Senate
PERIOD PERIOD question
the Defence national
the Alternative of the granny of helicopters Sea King
the Alternative of the granny of helicopters Sea King - Position possible of évacuer the troops of the sectors chauds
the Alternative of the granny of helicopters Sea King - Request of copy of the statement of the needs
the industry
the ligue national of hockey - Position possible of a assistance government for the teams
answers delayed to of the questions Oral
the agriculture and the agroalimentaire
the crisis agricultural to the Manitoba and in Saskatchewan - Position possible of a program of credit agricultural - - program of assistance in case of disaster linked to the income agricultural - - effectiveness of the program - - Payments to the claimants
the business of the Senate
order DAY THE
bill of bill of implementation in effect of the Agreement on the Station spatiale international civil
second Reading - Adjourned of the debate
the speech of the Throne
the Adresse in response - Motion an end to the debate the eighteenth day of Senate - Continued of the debate
the Act on the Parliament of the Canada
bill of bill Amend - Second Reading - Adjourned of the debate
the Union Monetary European
the report of the Committee of the Affairs foreign - Stands of the debate
Affairs Social , Science and Technology
Authorized to the Committee of study the facts new regarding the Suicide and the suicide attended
the situation of the aboriginal and their future
inquiry - Continued of the debate
Affairs legal and Constitutional
Authorized to the Committee of clerical of the services
Authorized to the Committee to according his deliberations by the media of information electronic
Affairs Social , Science and Technology
Authorized to the Committee of sit in even time that the Senate
the SENATE
the Thursday 25 November 99
the Senate is met to 14 p.m. , the Speaker good tempore the to the Chair .
prayers .
the hon. P . Derek Lewis , . C .
tributes to the opportunity of his retirement
the hon. B . Alasdair Graham :
honourable senators , when Winston Churchill has released a shows of his sections of newspapers and of magazine under the as of - great intellect of 1938 , he there has joined a testimony on the life and the implement of Robert Baden - Powell that he said consider as a of the three more great worry that he has known .
well heard , Baden - Powell , not was not that a General respected to the within of the forces Armed , he fonda also the movement world of the scouts .
Churchill wrote that the " of the famous founding , " Sois prepared " is precipitancy by all as a invitation to to the duty .
am prepared to defend the right and the truth , against instinctive and marées .
honourable senators , in struck the documents spent to the wonderful career of the Senator Derek Lewis , . C . - a life public so to the service and to the duty - , I have found how the influence of the baron Baden - Powell the had dismantling .
Derek has was during well of the years a of the pillars of the Boy Scouts of the Canada , to was for a time the Secretary of the organization national , and he in is today today a of the vices - chairmen for to life .
the Senator Lewis , all the other honourable senators the know , is a human very modest .
some could even the what of Baden - Powell of Newfoundland - Newfoundland .
the legendary to that , to the time where the Senator Lewis servait in the boy scouts , the Senator Joan Cook , who is today today his next of Chair , was member of the with of Newfoundland - Newfoundland .
for these long years of service he , the Senator Lewis has spent his efforts to the too of the full potential of the young and to the creation of citizens responsible - of the individuals to the values axées on the interest of the community and of their country - without never losing of view the community international .
the " of Baden - Powell , " Sois prepared " or " Be Prepared " , who 1 to his robust and who means " am always prepared mentalement and physiquement to to their duty " has was the of this an Senator that I have always was if proud of power what of real friend during all these years .
the Senator has was admitted to the Society of Newfoundland - Newfoundland in 1947 , two years only before that this nation , small but ô how important , not wants of the join to the Confederation Canadian .
this year where we celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of this union , we say unfortunately to the so to the a of his son and clubbers the more outstanding , a man who has ' all the ability of a people warmest , résistant and dynamic , the people of Newfoundland - Newfoundland , to the service of the life policy of this country .
placed St. John s and lawyer respected , the Senator Lewis has made the sense of the humour well known and the accuracy to negotiate and to to of the compromise to the Senate of the Canada during of his appointment in March 1978 .
when I have met the Senator Lewis for the first time through to the policy - a way day of to knowledge for number of between we - Derek had was to Newfoundland - Newfoundland steering or ' Main of many campaigns electoral federal .
the dedication and the reliability of the Senator Lewis are well what in this place .
he has was member of virtually all the committees who have was constitués by the Senate and was being for the way infallible that he had of work with the other members for come to a consensus on of the measures legislation often complex .
the list is long and impressive , and he is important of in to of .
for three years , between 1984 and 1986 , he has chaired the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional , which he is member without interruption since 1979 .
he has fact part of the Committee Standing of the Rules and of the procedure or , as be the Order since 1991 , of the Committee Senate Standing of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure , for a period to little close also long , be a little more of two decades .
the Senator Lewis has fact benefit of the very great know policy the Committee Standing of the regulatory and of the other were regulatory .
he has chaired the Committee Joint Standing of review of the regulatory for the more great part of the its decade .
he has often fact part of the Committee Joint of the insights of the Parliament and of the Committee Joint Special of the reform of the Senate , who has was up to the beginning of the years 80 .
, this list already very long and remarkable just the add the participation of the Senator Lewis to the business of the Committee Joint Special on the Entente constitutional of 1987 and to the Committee Special of the bill of bill C - 110 ( changes Constitutional ) of 1994 to 1996 .
he not there has therefore not place of the surprise that this " Newfoundland - Newfoundlander to the spirit alerte and to the festival spontané has learning a of the best reputations who be among all the people to never served to the House .
he is renowned for the generosity with which he implementation the time , the soul and the energy to the service of his province and of the country .
in quality of Senator , he has always including that the Senate of the Canada , as I the as without has , is the place of work of the government , a NRTEE to the within which he the is win the respect and the admiration of all of the two sides of the House .
for Derek Lewis , who has fact as of they in the movement scout to the country , the seaway of the success the is always only résumée to to the duty , to pagayer , as the has already said Baden - Powell , with the heart and his head and to be prepared , as the Senator Lewis the has always was , to defend faithfully the right and the truth , what that be the context .
right and truth .
duty and honour .
justice and equity .
these words décrivent of way very that our colleague who we leaving .
he is of out also the support of the wife of the Senator Lewis , the reinvent Grace , who is of the how today today in the gallery of the visitors .
we are many in this chamber to have very long bénéficié of their friendship warm and of their hospitality generous .
all our wish the Expenditure in their new businesses .
the hon. C . William Doody :
honourable senators , I like to my turn add my good wish to those views by my colleagues to the opportunity of the departure to the retirement of our friend Derek Lewis .
I know the Senator Lewis since 20 years and even before , to the time where we were St. John s .
this is a man who fate guarantee of the plain .
I then do say that , for all these years , he not me has never was of of hear the less criticism or the less fact to the with .
that is of as more remarkable that he has has the right with success for any this period .
but the more remarkable still , this is that , addition his practice of the right with the success that the be knows , he has actively behind for the Party Liberal of the Canada , this that he continues of , to this day .
I not me recall not of a campaign election , federal or provincial , to which the Senator Derek not has not in actively .
in the victory or the defeat , Derek was always a gentleman , poli , well high , well ' and méticuleux to the so .
in fact , I have already heard say St. John s that the time the more embarrassant in the life of Derek , this is when he the is fact take a day with the cravate defeat .
little any the opportunity , that he earner or that he perde , all his activities were always marquées by a great an of humour kind and sardonique who , that I , was particular to Derek Lewis .
, the Senate , I think that be the will particularly of him for the work to the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional .
the Senator Graham has very well enumerated , to fair as , the broad range of activities which Derek has in in this chamber .
he has made a work invaluable to the Committee of the Affairs legal , and his great knowledge of the right and that the approach all to fact practice and manifold to the regard of the business of the Committee and the tasks that be him included will difficult to replace .
the attendance of the Senator Lewis in this chamber is , well heard , a something which we can all be proud and that we should attempt of follow .
be not in about not to my knowledge in the book of Claire Hoy , but I not me am not to this that this such of something draw many the attention of any way .
I have sat with Derek to the Committee Senate Standing of the Economy Economy , of the Budgets and of the Administration for long and , that still , the work to the Committee not will not about , particularly by your servant .
the work of Derek to Newfoundland - Newfoundland in his profession has was dismantling by the even dedication and included of the detail .
his career in as that lawyer has was no for long by his our .
he has was ' of the bar of the Law Society of Newfoundland of 1962 to 1978 .
he is became chairman of the Law Patron of Newfoundland in 1979 .
honourable senators , Derek Lewis ) the right in the province of Newfoundland - Newfoundland since 1947 .
this was little after the episode of the Confederation which the Senator Graham has spoke .
I trying still of determine if Derek was in favour of the Confederation or not .
he refuses of the say .
sometimes , he said that he is a Canadian to reluctantly .
he the fact to the past , but I know exactly this that that to say .
I trying of discover to the fair the he was for or against , because , as the honourable senators the in recall , the vote was very tie and he there has can - be of the reasons for proceed to a new recount .
Derek Lewis has played a role active in the Affairs of our province and of our city .
the work with of the Boy Scouts of the Canada has was mentioned .
he is very recognized to Newfoundland - Newfoundland for that and for the work in the Game Fish Mammals Society of our province and in various other agencies volunteers who are very important for the evolution orderly of the society to Newfoundland - Newfoundland .
in effect , Derek has played a role active in almost all .
he has generously of the time each time that be the him has asked and we him in are all grateful .
I not inalienable not in the details of the work of the Senator Lewis for the Party Liberal , because the Senator Graham is many better put that I for the to .
of , , that not appear not also flatteur from of I .
I wish to Derek and to Grace of good years of retirement .
I included to that the wish that he take break of the Party Liberal as of the Senate , and this for of the reasons evident .
thank , Derek .
the hon. Joan Cook :
honourable senators , to those of between we who their to the life public in graduated that he is possible of to a change who will a better quality of life to all , he enough of look my colleague and friend , the Senator Derek Lewis .
he has a force quiet , a uniqueness extraordinary and a intellect outside of the common .
as Derek not lack no opportunity of me the remind , the brevity is the soul of the intellect ; I say therefore simply that my association with his woman and him covers quelque30 years political agitées .
the challenges have was many and diverse and we have known of the senior and of the there .
if I écrivais a book to this about , I can ensure to the Senator Doody that this would a best - seller .
for this period , Derek was the trésorier provincial of the Party Liberal .
the candidates and the workers of campaign election who bogeyman of the money believed all that with enough of money , they could win the victory .
I know that he has a patience of ange because that be the has very often ' to the it in this sense .
each time that we were défaits , Grace was always that , prepared to we comfort and to we to forget our only in we gavant of biscuits to the gingembre .
all of first , he said that be not could not to the impossible and then , that this not was not the money who Urban the victory and that the be earned when the constituents had confidence in we .
also , I like an these words immortelles that has prononcées gun Don Jamieson in about of the heritage of Newfoundland - Newfoundland , because that they you décrivent if well :
Derek and Grace , I you wish of not never change and of have still for long the over in the canoe .
the hon. Ethel Cochrane :
honourable senators , I am désolée of see the Senator Lewis we leave .
I know that we have always served of the seats contrary to the Senate , but , from all two of Newfoundland - Newfoundland , we have often was neighbours of seat in the from and we have also often lived together of the delay and of the changes of itinéraire .
I not knew not the Senator Lewis before of come to the Senate .
he had of the Coast is of Newfoundland - Newfoundland and I of the Coast west , to more of 1 . kilometres of distance .
the Senator Lewis me has many help to extension these first months .
he me has served of guide for this period and he has continued to the over of the years of me give of binge advice , and all that all to fact gratuitement .
I not have never seen the Senator Lewis déprimé .
what that be the time to the outside or the concerns political to the within , be could always be on Derek Lewis for we back the moral .
he has a ability remarkable for the remind of the blagues and for the recount to the good time .
be not knows never to what the expect with him and he can recount the blagues the more drôles without even esquisser a smile .
despite the spirit and the humour which he was evidence with of his friends , Derek Lewis was always very test in public .
he has always advise jalousement his life privacy and not has never them to to great with of the work and of his contribution .
he has as well succeeded in his life public , in as that Solicitor of funds for the great Party Liberal , member of the executive national of the party and negligible faithful and seriously to the business of the Senate .
for of many years , he has served the party , the people of Newfoundland - Newfoundland and of the Labrador and that the Parliament of way effective and effacée , without never be to to in flagship his own accomplishments .
before of be appointed to the Senate , Derek Lewis was a an lawyer who practised St. John s .
he was enormous respected and sea in the community .
, the beginning of his career , he the is associated to Finton Aylward and to John you .
this is therefore a Liberal sure who the is associated to the very Conservative Finton Aylward , became by the on Justice to Newfoundland - Newfoundland and to the Labrador , and to a young John you , who has known a proceed career in as that Minister to the within of a government Conservative federal and who is today today Chancellor to the University Memorial .
who knows this that Derek Lewis would accomplished the he had seen clear for his Youth and had changed of with policy ?
I am course that his colleagues of this study the join to we for address their best wish to Derek .
Derek and the wife , Grace , have a home on the Lake Hogans , St. John s .
I know that , for the was , they unhappy the baigner all the legalities in this Lake .
I hope that they continue of benefit of the Lake Hogans and of all the other wonders of Newfoundland - Newfoundland and of the Labrador for of long years .
god you bénisse , Derek .
the hon. Joyce Fairbairn :
honourable senators , this is a day sad for the Senate that the where we must say Adieu to a colleague as the Senator Derek Lewis , who has enormous contributed to the business of this legislature for more of 20 years .
he the is fisherman a place special to the Senate , as by the work that he has accomplished that by the influence on of the people as I - even , the Senator Cochrane and as of other , who have canvassed his advice and the support in their efforts for better understand and to communications our role in this chamber .
the Newfoundland - alter , and more particularly the Senator Lewis , are to the Parliament and in all case to the Senate a point of view and a attitude well different of those of the other provinces , a so of fraîcheur Shipping who with to their history , the of the last province to the be " to the Confederation , this that it has fact the 31 March 1949 , to midnight least 10 .
we have many learned of our colleagues of Newfoundland - Newfoundland .
we the have trusting discuss of the benefits and of the inconvénients of their new nationalité .
I have certainly bénéficié of the intensité of the patriotism that they have made to the Canada without abandon a once of the emotion and of the pride who is to their - attends .
Derek Lewis not is not a great parleur ; this is a man of action .
he " and he evaluated .
when he finit by take the speak , that this be to the Senate or to the very many committees where he has sat , he the fact with be , wisdom and brevity .
I have also noticed to the over of the years that he not lâche not .
he is as a terrier with a for , the he believe that a witness or a colleague his someone something or esquive a question .
I the have took during of the years for model to the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional .
when of great and difficult problems have surgi to the Senate in the matter constitutional of the changes to to to the system school of Newfoundland - Newfoundland , he me has of of very asset advice .
the Senator Lewis is a jurist who has was described by none other that the party land - neuvien , John you , as " a man quiet , but a great spirit legal " .
he not am not not more to in to the démonstration .
he not was hardly more that a noviciate to the Senate that he was of change our institution in as that member of the Committee Joint Special of the reform of the Senate , under the Speaker of our Speaker present , the Senator Molgat , in 1983 .
the Senator Lewis has also métamorphosé the Committee Joint of the review of the regulatory , to the business before oratorical and even incompréhensibles of the notice of some , in a form of art , causant of the dismay in some as in of the people who the were endormis in a false security in graduated that human not there prêtait really the less attention .
as of other the have fact out , the Senator Lewis has was member of almost all the committees important of the Senate ; all recently , he was the a of the personnagesclés of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign .
however , in despite of his great experience and of the an sense of his responsibilities to the Senate , this is of his kindness , of his generosity , of the sense renovations of the justice and of his compassion to those who are least their that we which I me shall when I penserai to my friendship with the Senator Lewis .
well that he has before with enthusiasm the opportunity of serve the public , he not has never about of where he had not more that the needs and the force of the people of Newfoundland - Newfoundland , his province well - rock , who him voue a great admiration .
of , , to the within of my own party , the Party Liberal , be not will not St. John s without call Derek .
what that be his for of work , or the time , he is always that for you .
I have brossé a picture rather angélique of my sir colleague , but I will also out that he has a sense of the humour endiablé , that this is a great storyteller , and that he not dédaigne not a good rasade of rhum .
he has said that the human that his retirement was the more is the wife Grace , who the has always seconded without défaillance , even when he the is initiated in a new career who him has fact leave the Island regularly , week after week , for the two past decades .
that in said long on the links who the bonds .
I their wish to all two of many years of happiness together .
Derek not has not still decided to what challenges he would now the deal , but , what that they be , I the encourage to not not abandon the tricot .
honourable senators , the Senator Lewis is unborn to Newfoundland - Newfoundland in 1924 .
after his studies of right to the University Memorial , St. John s , he is admitted to the bar of this province in 1947 .
he ) the right St. John s to the s Lewis , Day , Cook and Sheppard .
in 1961 , he wife Grace Knight .
in 1964 , he is appointed board of the Queen ; he is ' of the Society of Newfoundland - Newfoundland of 1962 to 1978 .
he is appointed to the Senate in 1978 .
the Senator Lewis is a lawyer of the practice privacy .
this fact has interns and dismantling his life .
since his came to the Senate , he was for of the years a member very active of the Committee of the Affairs legal and Constitutional , where the excellent reputation not is more to to .
the Senator Lewis has chaired the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional , of 1984 to 1986 , has co the Committee Joint of the review of the regulatory , of 1994 to 1997 , and has was member of this Committee for of many years .
he has also sat to a number performance of other committees : the Committee Standing of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure , the Committee of selection , the Committee Joint Special on the reform of the Senate , of 1980 to 1983 , and the Committee Joint Special of the Senate and of the House of the Commons on the Entente constitutionelle of 1987 , in 1987 and in 1988 , between other .
be has said that his great contribution of the Senate , this are his business for improve of the measures legislation and his business in Committee .
the Senator Lewis is a man of Committee and a great expert in s of laws .
I wish to the thank do .
the hon. Lorna Milne :
honourable senators , let - I of share with you few other stories to the about of the hon. Senator Derek Lewis , to begin by the time where we we are from of friendship , I believe .
be the would believed in a conte of Edgar Allan Poe : " revision a night monotone , where I broyais of the says ... "
well course , the hour not was not all to fact also untimely , but I was only in my office , to the mezzanine of the Senate , about four months after have was appointed to this House , and I commençais to in have a little marre .
this night - that , be has struck doucement to the relates of my office .
this was the senators Lewis and Bonnell .
Derek has said : " We Pension you find still here and we we ask the he you plairait of we with in China . "
he not had virtually not last his sentence that I had the paletot on the on and that I franchissais the relates .
since this day , Ross and I are their of the friends sincere , I believe , of Derek and of the " her Grace " .
in fact , we shock of the see too little since few years , because that it is very dynamic .
I have appreciate all the times that we have have together .
he was always this and usually to the hour .
he former until to the any end of each Senate .
each time that the interrogation of a client innocently to languir , he possession a question who ranimait the discussion and who reflecting a perspective totally new on the bill of bill to the study or can - be even a assure showed .
all chairman of Committee knows to what point he is important that the good motion be introduced to the good time , and be could always be on Derek for that .
the sense of the to - about has always was absolutely such and the notice on the deliberations of the Committee , that reliable , because , as of other the have already said , the know of Law is we .
as all the Newfoundland - alter of more of 50 years , Derek has ' of the time to become Canadian .
in effect , he the is became to the body defending .
I believe that he has voted to the least a time against the into of Newfoundland - Newfoundland in the Confederation .
in fact , he people that this was a very bad idea .
a time that the Canada is was to Newfoundland - Newfoundland , however , he the is interested to the policy Canadian with enthusiasm - with sometimes a little too of enthusiasm , can - be .
Derek , I hope that you écrivez a book .
not let not that to the Senator Cook !
racontez the frasques to the world , the time where you have Mohawk the ordures to the nose of the troops of your former associated in your study of lawyers and this that you have already ' in the coffre - very of the office .
well course , that back to the time détestable where Derek was associated with a sure John you , who has already was a Liberal famous or malfamé of the other place .
I me hasten of add that Derek is today today many more make , to this that he said , of the least .
Derek , sir friend , the number of the people who have said here today today that they s you miss in said long on the such of human that you are .
I know that you me missed angry .
you advice are , your assistance reliable and your wonderful and distinct sense of the humour will me be .
this who me will particularly , I believe , this is the insurance that a real friend attends all the days these walls .
I you mud that we resterons in communication and that we demeurerons friends , even to distance .
the hon. Consiglio Di Nino :
honourable senators , I wish to speak of a other aspect of the contribution of the Senator Lewis to the Canada and to the Canadians that you not know can - be not for the most .
you have can - be noticed that , when we we rencontrons , we we giving the with left rather that the right .
this not is not the sign of a society secrète , but , of a magnificent society who has many fact to the Canada .
the Senator Lewis is since long a member he and zélé of the movement scout , a passion that we share .
this movement has has his contribution of well of the ways , including in the him recently vice - chairman Honorary of the body national , a honour who me has also was LAVs .
blessed - you live still of many years of happiness .
the hon. Sharon Carstairs :
honourable senators ,
these words , writing by Rudyard Kipling , not have of any obviously not was writing in believing to Derek Lewis , but he was the act of someone a as Derek Lewis .
honourable senators , to the Senate , we produced the formula " honourable colleagues " in we ability the each to the other , but human here not is more hon. that Derek Lewis .
Derek Lewis was , and is always , a man very kind .
he is far sure that his achievements , and he in has known several , are account only to the work and to his efforts .
the Senator Lewis not has never believed necessary of use the other for can to his for personal .
be not would never could any Derek of act to the backs of someone a in the hope of current him - even , because Derek was to the contrary that he enrichirait his own life in by the other .
even if Derek has succeeded as lawyer and Parliamentary , I the see particularly as a man generous , with a sense of the humour sophisticated , who has always was that for me support , to his manner understanding , but clear .
when I have chaired the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional , with the Senator Nolin to my sides as vice - chairman , the Senator Lewis was the other member of the Committee steering .
when I have was Leader Deputy of the government to the Senate , I knew that he was always that , prepared to help quiet but résolument .
Derek and Grace have graciously received all the members of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional to Hogans Pond , Newfoundland - Newfoundland , when we we are people in this province for there study the question of the system school .
as Derek the knew very well , I had few reserves to the about of this amendment .
I must by that I would well more of contrarier Derek that of contrarier the government .
Derek will me be to this place .
the too little vandalism visits of Grace to Ottawa will also me be .
I their wish of many years of a retirement pleased , together , in their province adorée , including to Hogans Pond .
I hope that we resterons in touch because that the good friends are few and that they are the best friends of all those who the are .
the hon. Jerahmiel S . Grafstein :
honourable senators , to the opportunity of his retirement , we which today today tribute to our friend Derek Lewis , the man modest and quiet of Newfoundland - Newfoundland who has fact a long and famous career to the Senate .
not is - this not a opportunity all route for take the time of we remind the balance delicate that the Senate supports in our life public and that the principles discrets , almost reference , who will our work here important and dignified of faith ?
when I am come to Ottawa for the first time in 1966 , for work as Leader of s of a Minister , be me has explained that he was essential that I me seek on the work of the Senate .
I knew very little of things on the way which the Senate operated .
by a day ensoleillée of July , I have asked a Boteler - you , by the through of Torrance Wiley , with a old friend who was then Deputy executive of the hon. John Connolly , the powerful Leader of the government to the Senate .
be me has immediately guest to the meet .
I am went in the magnificent office of s lambrissé and well enlightened located in opposite of the Senate , of the other side of the performed , office that ' now the present Leader of the government to the Senate .
close of two decades more later , when I have had the opportunity of be appointed Senate , a old friend , the Senator acquisitiveness , the father of John acquisitiveness , to the other place , the is immediately ' in report with I .
the Senator acquisitiveness me has has the book Red of the Rules of the Senate and he me has said this : " Respectez the Rules and the Senate you keeping . "
little after , the Nova - Brunswickois to the Summer - speak , the Senator McElman , me has said that the work of the committees , this was the soul of the Senate .
he me has reminded that , even if the most of between we had a with to a party , we could remodeler a bad policy government quiet , without amidst or fanfare , by the through of the deliberations of the committees Senate .
he me has exhorté to work very to the within of the committees .
then I have met the Senator Ian Sinclair who , to the time , had all fair of be appointed to the Senate .
before , he was , with gracefully , the duties of steering General of the Canadian Pacific , a of the more major companies of the Canada , and he was a legendary bequeath in the as of the Affairs .
the Senator Sinclair has said that the experience in the Affairs him had learned that the better work - and , therefore , the better work fact to the Senate - is , who is realized by the senators them - same .
he has said that a good work to the Senate and in the committees apporterait his own reward under form of satisfaction personal .
finally , the Senator MacEachen of the Nova - Nova - a former Leader of the government to the Senate - me has reminded to and occasions , and has reminded to all the senators of this side - this , that to of maintain our own credibility and the of the Senate , we find keep our disappear with the other place to the across of the corridor and that the other place of the other side of the street .
the echoes of his advice the are fact hear to the Senate not more later that yesterday , when the Senator Murray has raised the question of the study pre .
the Senator MacEachen the is firmly opposed to the study pre of the initiatives business , because it had for effect unavailable of reduce the credibility of the Senate in as that House of reflection , in as that House independent of the other place , of the other place of the other side of the street , in as that House independent to our own be and to those of the public to the service which we are .
by therefore , to my sense , honourable senators , he must respect to the Senate a delicate balance between the principles .
the flame of the power of the other place is always attirante , but if we we in scenes too , our work and the Senate him - even into of be quickly reduced in cendres .
this are the first principles that I have glanés to the about of the Senate .
the principles and the practice must go of fine .
all that , honourable senators , in as of preamble to the tribute that I to to to my good friend Derek Lewis , who we leaving for a retirement well deserved .
, my be , Derek has incarné all these principles .
he comply our institution .
he has learning a knowledge encyclopaedic of the rules of the Senate and respected his impressive .
in the business of the committees , he was the artisan by excellence .
Derek was test , méticuleux , appropriate , witty and thought .
he is always was to distance respectueuse of the power .
in a word , Derek was the Senator by excellence and the lawyer by excellence .
in this sense , he is a representative of a kind of more in more rare to the Senate .
for all these reasons and for his company who we will , the departure decide a great vacuum to the Senate .
Derek , you are to the across of your with .
your work is accomplished .
you and Grace méritez widely of live a pleased retirement in good health .
as be said in the tradition Jewish : " Puissiez - you live in good health until to 120 years . "
god you bénisse .
the hon. Landon Pearson :
honourable senators , when I me am " to the Senate for the first time , the face of Derek Lewis has was the a of the all first to the initiative of the myriad of the faces unknown are I have should to opposite all the days in this chamber .
he was amical , but should .
I me fiais on the on for know this who importait or not in this chamber .
I efficiently many of importance to the five years that I have alone with Derek in this chamber and to the knowledge that he me has passed in the style inimitable .
I chéris also the fact that he me has said regularly that he me comply in as that colleague and in as that woman .
Derek Lewis will many we be and I me join to all the honourable senators here today today for him wish , and that to Grace , good opportunity .
that their life after the Senate be many more rich and more divertissante that they not can the imagine now .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I am happy of to tribute with my colleagues to the Senator Derek Lewis .
I have met the Senator Lewis for the first time here not not in as that Senator , but in as that son of Senator .
the Senator Lewis was a friend it of my father , who sitting to the Senate to the time .
be me the has presented as a human very special .
a of the great plaisirs of my career has was of power be I also on the friendship of the Senator Lewis .
be we has already said that the Senator Lewis was a man remarkable , a Senator , a lawyer , a ' of Majesty Majesty paid in right and , can - be more important still , a volunteer in his community .
I the for for that and I the in thank .
the Senator Lewis has represented this that he there has of better to the Senate by his dignity devoted , his great jurisdiction and the work relentlessly .
he knows this who is necessary for to operate our institution .
he not there has not that the Senator Lewis who at his retirement today today however .
he must also think to the contribution of Grace .
I the thank of have stalker the many attendance of Derek .
we remercions also the tireless of long date of the Senator Lewis , Sallie .
Senator Lewis , profitez of your retirement .
you have worked durum .
you missed to the Senate .
I you wish a retirement long and pleased .
we hope you see often with Grace .
of way devoted , firm and effective , you have served your province and your country with distinction .
you will many we be .
the hon. Edward Lawson :
honourable senators , well of the things have was what to the about of the career exceptional and of the accomplishments of the Senator Lewis , but for the people of the Western , he is always surprising of meet someone a une of a is spirit and of a wonderful sense of the humour as the Senator Lewis .
we are all two here since very long , but to our arrived , he there had a old Senator who we had devancés since great lurette .
this old Senator said often that to the time of die , he had the intention of all just with him , and he was seriously .
he had of this contrée .
he has has to each a envelope made per . $ in cash and their has said that , when he mourrait , he wanted that each of them tabled the envelope in the astonishes made his restes .
the old Senator is death .
the three men have faithfully followed the consigne and have tabled their envelope in the cercueil .
on the move of the return , the doctor has said that he had a one to to .
the needs of the Hospital were if criants , particularly since that the government had sabré in the Estimates , that he had puisé 25 . $ in the envelope .
the pasteur répondit that him also had a one to to .
the needs of the church were if criants that he had in 40 . $ .
the Senator Lewis their said that they should have shame of have did of the so to their promise solemn and he the assura that he had took the be of table in the cercueil the envelope made a cheque staff to the amount of per . $ .
what that be the problems that you concealed in this chamber , when well even you porteriez the negative of the world on your his , when you rencontrez the Senator Lewis , force you is of smile .
he répand the wear around of him with the test , the is spirit and the wonderful sense of the humour .
Senator Lewis , you we missed !
the hon. Léonce MLA :
honourable senators , he me fact happy of to tribute today today to the Senator Derek Lewis , who the is distinguished by the sense of the justice and the spirit of diplomacy .
I have our appreciate the qualities of this Newfoundland - Newfoundlander .
the Senator Lewis has has his duties with honesty and jurisdiction .
the intellect and the sense of the humour have contributed to to a balance between his colleagues senators .
is a accuracy who is rare !
the Senator Lewis expression the dicton who said : " Soyez an to you - even " , this is a man which the speak is of however , a man reliable which be can to confidence .
I hope that all the Newfoundland - alter are pareils because the Senator Lewis has established a standard who will difficult to apply .
Senator Lewis , your province and your country are proud of your services .
I you is all my wish .
the hon. P . Derek Lewis :
honourable senators , I thank the senators for their tributes .
even if this was in great part exaggeration , I not contesterai nothing , particularly not the kind about held to my regard .
I aside this be to of other .
I have had the privilege of be member of this House for a little more of 21 years .
I have many appreciate of have had the possible of me associate to of the colleagues also various , informed and made , and I in am honoured .
during the years that I have fellow here , I me am fact several friends " which I chérirai always the friendship .
I have took happy to work with the senators of the two sides of the House .
my only regret , this is that the circumstances me have forced this last year of limit someone little my activities and of not have could therefore better to knowledge with the senators appointed recently to the Senate .
he was a time where I not me souciais or of the world of the policy or of his for .
however , when I me there am interested of close in me involving personally , I have soon including all those who rely on this Alexander and learned to sympathiser with them .
, the departure , this is the curiosity who me has forced to take on to the life policy .
as some of between you the know , a time that be the involved in a bill , be the is committed in a cogs who go of more in more soon , and be finit by become accroché .
some activities parliamentarians were if imprévisibles that I me unsure sometimes lost .
he appropriate , to my notice , of to in place a program of direction to the intention of the senators newly appointed , not only for explain the procedure , but also for the inform of the different services and facilities ' to their clause .
in well of the case , I not have discovered these things that after have asked the question to of the colleagues , as the has fact the Senator Cook .
this is really pity , since this information is available , to the condition of know where the be .
, the over of the years , many of new senators have expressed the same concerns .
I believe know that , since few years , of the measures have was taken for improve the things .
he is recognize important that the new senators the familiarisent as that possible with the Rules of the Senate .
I have in for of many years to the business of different committees and I have many appreciate the experience , well that this was sometimes difficult .
I have was Right impressed by the quality and the exhaustivité of the reviews are we we livrions .
as of other before I the have fact having , the work in Committee is the a of the activities the more important of the Senate .
I think including to two committees in particular .
a of the first committees are I have in has was the Committee Joint of the review of the regulatory .
he the was differently to the time .
work with the staff and the representatives of the Committee was a happy .
they reflect if well the work ennuyeux who is to study and to excellent of the regulations and of the procedure .
, the within of this Committee , I have ground under various chairmen which , of the side of the Senate , the former senators Lafond , Forsey , acquisitiveness and Nurgitz , and that the Senator Normand .
our chairman in year is the Senator Payette - Hervieux .
I have also co for a sure time this Committee .
I have also was for very long member of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional , who has always was a of the committees the more busy of the Senate .
I have had the happy of côtoyer of the chairmen as the former senators Stanbury , Flynn and Nurgitz , and that the senators Beaudoin , Carstairs and Milne .
the work of this Committee was very interesting and important .
the leadership has by the people to served the Speaker has enormous contributed to the accomplishments of the Committee .
I speak now briefly the question of the reform of the Senate who , since the time even of his creation , fact the subject of many of discussions and of controversy .
I note that little after my appointment here , the question of a reform to to to of the Senate a body elected has of new surgi .
in 1980 , a Committee Joint of the two Houses of the Parliament has was established to of study of the ways which the Senate could be term in view of strengthen the role of representative of the people of all the regions .
I have was appointed to this Committee , who was co by the hon. Senator Molgat and the hon. Paul Cosgrove .
after have given of many meetings in various regions of the country and have heard many of evidence , of conscious and of discussions , the Committee is came to the conclusion and has fact report to the two Houses that the Senate should be elected by the people and he has some of the suggestions on the way of the there take .
the report has was tabled in 1984 .
as the know the honourable senators , nothing not has changed since this time .
I recommends to the senators of read the report .
you find that the Committee not the is focused that on the question of know if the Senate should be set of people appointed or elected .
the Committee not had not to determine if the Canada should have a regime bicameral of government or to the deal on the powers and devoirs who incomberaient to a second House .
, the over of the years , these questions have in great part was left for that .
, my notice , this are of the questions cruciales which he would of first answer before of stop the method of selection of the people who would part of a such second House or of where the number of senators that the region or the province .
, this regard , I am out that the Senator Joyal is in are of form a Committee officieux of eminent academic for study these questions .
in reason of the efforts that he makes , the Senator Joyal is described in the press as the Sir Galaad of the Senate .
we have forward of know the results of this study and the recommendations who will can - be made .
in ending , I you thank all for the assistance that you me have made in my business to the Senate to the over of the years .
I thank all the employees and the officials for their kindness and their cooperation .
I wish to thank all particularly my Secretary , Sallie DeLaplante , who is its to the gallery , for his loyalty , the support and the effectiveness for if long .
well course , I thank my dear woman Grace , who me has constantly seconded to the over of this period .
let - I of mention a last something .
this not is not a question of privilege .
he seems that he there has a farceur to the Senate .
he not there has not if long , probably by regard for my age and my comfort , be has ' a coverage under my office .
I know who has fact that .
the Senator Di Nino :
this is probably Grace !
the Senator Lewis :
this is possible , but I will the let to the next occupying of this been .
I you thank for your patience and you offer my best wish for the future .
of the Senators :
hear !
' ' '
the Late of Allan Austin Lamport , O . C .
tributes
the hon. Francis William Mahovlich :
honourable senators , the former mayor of Toronto , Allan Austin Lamport , is who .
Allan Austin Lamport , Canada of the Order of the Canada , member of the Assembly legislative of the Ontario , chairman of the Board of transport of Toronto and member of the Bomber Royal of the Canada , was known under the behalf of " Lampy " by his friends .
I have fact the knowledge of Lampy to my arrived to Toronto , to the beginning of the years 50 .
in 1953 - vertical , the métro has was inaugurated and Lampy was mayor .
this was a concludes for all those who were work to the Maple Leaf CFTO .
the practices of hockey after the school not surely not many of time for the meals of the night or for the studies .
the métro allowed of save of the time .
the mayor was famous for his impropriétés or his long to the Yogi Berra .
( before that the States - United have Yogi Berra , the Canada had Allan Lamport . )
in is few - few :
his " lampyismes " have was for Lampy a weapon an to the over of his career policy .
the man who " niait any allegation and who défiait all alligator " has do few losses : the Red Ensign , the Bomber Royal Canadian , a any in diffamation of a chauffeur of taxi and the riding St. David' s , that he has many to the profit of William Dennison when he has was transféré on the Coast is , in 1945 .
this is in 1945 , I believe , that is born her the Senator Milne , who is s the daughter of William Dennison .
well well , in 1994 , be 40 years after that he its inaugurated the métro and that I fus came to Toronto , we have all two received the Order of the Canada .
a something that I could prédire to the about of Lampy , this is where he the assoirait in the Hot Stove Lounge of the Maple Leaf CFTO .
I entrais , I suspendais my manteau and my chapeau , I was a half - turn to right and Lampy was that , in good politician that he was , serrant the with of all the invited came take the at .
is few - few of the quotations the more stick of be quotations of the man who has authorized to Toronto the sports the Sunday .
now , for the conclusion final , Lampy , be the will always of you as of the man to the side with .
that God you bénisse !
the hon. Peter A . Stollery :
honourable senators , I have seen the Senator Mahovlich Sunday night to the salon funéraire where was Allan Lamport .
I like me to the here of his remarks for of the reasons personal .
my father , Alan Stollery , was a great with of Allan Lamport .
I me recall , during my Youth , of events such that the Authorized of the sports the Sunday , the Prime bill of housing social to the Canada and all the other accomplissements of Allan Lamport , who has without no doubt was the more great mayor of Toronto of this century .
Affairs routine
fisheries
Tabled of the Prime report of the Committee
the hon. Gerald J . Comeau :
honourable senators , pursuant to the section 104 of the Rules of the Senate , I have the honour of table the Prime report of the Committee Senate Standing of the fisheries , regarding the Estimates incurred by the Committee during the first session of the 30 - sixth Parliament .
security and services of Intelligence
Tabled of the Prime report of the Committee Special
the hon. Eymard G . Corbin :
honourable senators , to the behalf of the Senator Kelly and pursuant to the section 104 of the Rules of the Senate , I have the honour of table the Prime report of the Committee Special of the Senate on the security and the services of Intelligence , regarding the Estimates incurred by the Committee during the first session of the 30 - sixth Parliament .
( the text of the report is to the Journals of the Senate of today today . )
Economy Economy , Budgets and Administration
Tabled of the Prime report of the Committee
the hon. Pierre Claude Nolin :
honourable senators , pursuant to the section 104 of the Rules of the Senate , I have the honour of table the Prime report of the Committee Senate Standing of the Economy Economy , of the Budgets and of the Administration , regarding the Estimates incurred by the Committee to the over of the first session of the 30 - sixth Parliament .
( the text of the report is to the Journals of the Senate of today today . )
security of the transport
Tabled of the Prime report of the Committee Special
the hon. J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , pursuant to the section 104 of the Rules of the Senate , I have the honour of table the Prime report of the Committee Special of the security of the transport , regarding the Estimates incurred by the Committee for the first session of the Session Parliament .
the adjournment
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the ( 58 ( 1 ) p.m. ) of the Rules , I move :
that , when the Senate adjourns today today , he remains adjourned until to Tuesday next , the 30 November 99 , to 14 p.m. .
the Hon. the Speaker good tempore :
the leave is - it granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
Affairs legal and Constitutional
notice of motion Motion the Committee to sit in even time that the Senate
the hon. Lorna Milne :
honourable senators , I give notice that Tuesday next , the 30 November 99 , I move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional be authorized to sit the 1 December 99 , to 15 p.m. 30 , even if the Senate seat to this time - that , and that the application of the paragraph 95 ( 4 ) of the Rules be suspended to this regard .
privileges , Rules and procedure
Authorized to the Committee of sit in even time that the Senate
the hon. Serge Joyal :
honourable senators , with the leave of the sénat and notwithstanding the ( 58 ( 1 ) has ) of the Rules , I move :
that the Committee Standing of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure be authorized to sit to 16 p.m. 30 , the duration , even if the Senate seat , of now to the end of December 99 , to that the Committee can study the question of privilege raised by the hon. Senator Bacon and that the questions of privilege of the honourable senators Andreychuk and Kinsella , and that the application duparagraphe 95 ( 4 ) of the Rules be suspended to this regard .
the Hon. the Speaker good tempore :
the leave is - it granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the hon. John Lynch - Lynch ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , have - I heard the Senator Joyal say 15 p.m. 30 or 16 p.m. 30 in his motion ?
the Senator Joyal :
I have said 16 p.m. 30 .
the Senator Lynch - Lynch :
I thought that the Speaker good tempore had said 15 p.m. 30 .
still a time , honourable senators , we are before of requests of committees who want sit in even time that the Senate .
we should can - be expect that the committees have set their p.m. of Senate , before of decide of the how .
the situation is completely inversée .
four committees in two days have asked to sit in even time that the Senate .
I it the senators there reflect .
the committees seem always perturber the business of the Senate .
I as that the business of the committees are important , but we have of the responsibilities important to as here also .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , the Senator Lynch - Lynch , Leader of the Opposition , has raised a argument valid .
this is a point on which we must we with all together , for attempt of in come to a decision , as the has has the Senator Lynch - Lynch , on the times where the committees could to their sittings without perturber unduly the business of the Senate .
when I have took place to the back of the Senate , I not me unsure not also only that I me sense now , then that the seats the vident of more in more to legislation that the after - afternoon advance .
the hon. Peter A . Stollery :
he would can - be good that we revoyions this question in even time that the of the committees who members in even time that the Senate .
the Hon. the Speaker good tempore :
pleasure - he to the honourable senators of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
PERIOD PERIOD question
the Defence national
the Alternative of the granny of helicopters Sea King
the hon. J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , the Leader of the government to the Senate we has of the insurance , which we accept , that the Alternative of the Sea King in view of the activities aéronavales is a great priority of the Minister of the Defence national .
he there has two days , the Secretary Parliamentary of the Minister has said , in response to a question raised to the House of the Commons , that the decision became to the Minister and that it the people on the office .
today today , the under - Leader of of - Staff of the Defence has said that the forces Armed have signed the statement of the need to the end of June or to the beginning of July .
other said , the Minister is since already a good time .
why is - he ?
the is - be further of the intention stated in the book white of the Defence of 1994 , that which he the was then of a priority and that be there your of here the end of this decade ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
as the has out the Senator , he seems that of the business préliminaires have was wishes to the about of this decision .
when I with that with the insurance that I have received of the Minister , to know that this decision represents his great priority , I have good hope that a decision will taken in a future very grown .
the Alternative of the granny of helicopters Sea King - Position possible of évacuer the troops of the sectors chauds
the hon. J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , these warning by come five years more later .
the patient not the relates not very well .
the Minister is to the aware of the operation Cobra , who has had place he there has few years , where we find be on the Sea King , to the case where we would forced of évacuer of the troops of the Bosnia .
someone 4 500 military of the Forces Canadian are now in mission in of the areas dangerous , in the world around .
what such of equipment utiliserions - we for évacuer these people and the have in place course , if we find to opposite to a such need today today ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , the Senator Forrestall knows that the officers senior are without no doubt always in legislation of express the need of equipment Supplementary , need who the fact always feel .
we have of the equipment who is in operation since very long and the Minister of the Defence national the is of as priority of to replace this equipment the more quickly possible .
in this who with the helicopters Sea King , the hon. Senator has said and continues of say that the program of Alternative not advance not enough quickly .
I not can speak of this who the is product in the past , but I hope that we will in legislation of replace this equipment in a deadline reasonable .
honourable senators , I not am not a strategist military , but I know that he there has some types of aircraft who are very well to move of the staff and of the equipment to of the regions of the world where we are called to speak .
he must hope that this ability which be the is served recently remains good .
the Senator Forrestall :
honourable senators , I me concern of the well - be of the members of the Forces Canadian .
they are in of the aircraft who , when they are utilisables , not can be used that for a brief period .
the equipment is old and little reliable .
still yesterday or before - yesterday , we have should évacuer a school to the Cape - Cape because that a from Hercules has éprouvé of the problems of drives and has should the for , by legislation of précaution to the better , but he the was probably of a atterrissage of emergency .
we not know not that the Labrador are finger to the soil .
we versons10 million of $ , for sit to the table and for know this who will the from .
this is presumably for that we can replace the F - 18 .
if be can spending 140 million of $ to left et147 million of $ to right , why not not be to obtain of participate to the conception of the new Cormorant or Sikorsky for the ensure that they are will of Mothballed - to the requirements operational formula in the statement of the needs that we have established since that we have began to consider the Purchase of the EH - EH ?
why not can - we not buy this new equipment and the use ?
honourable senators , the people are to believe that the actions of the government are amoraux , they finiront soon by believe that they are immoraux .
gun before that of other people not long .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I sharing the concerns of the hon. Senator , as all the other senators of , , in this who with the security of our military and their effectiveness task .
the equipment which we about is a equipment complex , and of the equipment complex it can let in missed .
in effect , even the equipment complex nine directly sometimes in missed and has need of be talked .
I think that he is fair of say that the program of Alternative is already in good seaway of too .
the program of Alternative of the under - submarines considerable of a funding to up of more of three quarters of billion of $ .
a helicopter for to replace the helicopter of research and of search Labrador costs close of 800 million of $ .
these programs are in over .
the Alternative of the granny of helicopters Sea King - Request of copy of the statement of the needs
the hon. J . Michael Forrestall :
the Minister the commitment he to table here , to the House , the statement of the needs to the regard of the program who is already realized ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I will me information with of the Minister and I suivrai the practice usual for table the document .
the industry
the ligue national of hockey - Position possible of a assistance government for the teams
the hon. David Tkachuk :
honourable senators , my question the is to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
this week , the board City of Kanata has announced that he reduce of 75 per the taxes foncières of the Centre Corel .
the amount and économisée would then been to the team of the Rangers of Ottawa .
the government has he the intention of help the team of the Rangers to even the Board federal ?
a such assistance will it split also between all the teams of hockey Canadian ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , Mr. Manley , the Minister responsible of the issues of this such , has indicated that he Roles various options as to a some assistance federal .
course , this more recent legislation was welcome in the process .
be can say that it is encouraging in the context overall .
however , the Minister Manley has indicated that , even the he the is of a not in the good leadership , he will still several elements before that the government federal not take a decision .
, this day , the Minister not has took no decision to my knowledge .
the Senator Tkachuk :
honourable senators , what are the major objections to the idea of help financially the teams of hockey professional ?
the Senator Boudreau :
I not like not paraphrasing the objections raised by the different stakeholders during the debates , honourable senators .
they the are enough well views .
however , I can assume that be the against to this idea to because of the salaries high of the protocol , without speak of the salaries of the owners of the teams .
I not formula not these arguments .
I émets only of the assumptions .
by the through Mr. Manley , the government has clear said that he étudierait the question , but that all that sold a enchaînement of events .
the more recent , this is - to - say the decision of the board City of Kanata , is positive .
however , all this that I can say to the honourable senators , this is that the Minister not is not still prepared to announce a decision .
the Senator Tkachuk :
honourable senators , I am enough should .
I not like not the grants what that they be .
however , I have thought that the government federal would all the efforts imaginables for give of the money to the Rangers of Ottawa since give of the money to of the people who in than already many not is not of the all came for the Liberal federal .
, as of example , the year last , the Corporation CBC - Canada has received 844 million of $ .
the year before , it had received 903 million .
if I not me read , the chairman and the vice - chairman of this society touch between 200 . and 300 . $ by year .
the houses of edition have received 31 643 742 $ the year last .
the chairman and the steering of the board of Administration of the Rogers Cable touch more of 1 million of $ by year , but this not are not of the stars who the produced in brutes all the samedis night before two million of a .
the book supports , the Estimates Main of the Estimates , contains many of other examples of the even acabit .
of the grants there are for for the filmmakers and the networks of television .
be give of the money for throughout of the films that human not will never see ; the é and the producers touch between 50 . $ and 200 . $ by Film , without speak of their remuneration Annual .
Mr. . Manley believes - he a only moment that he not will not the teams and the protocol of hockey of the small communities of the Prairies and of the back - country of the Ontario ?
the government should have shame .
on the plan cultural , the hockey is many more important for the Canada that all these case which I have spoke .
you invitations as these cheques as tomorrow .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I me am of see that the Senator has of the ideas also opinionated on the question .
I not bring not of in to on to who of right .
I have believed a moment that the Senator was on the point of by the principles NDP - i who , in s of development economic , would give of the money to those who the lose rather that to those who know in gain .
the Senator Tkachuk :
this is the philosophical Liberal !
the Senator Boudreau :
answers delayed to of the questions Oral
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I have the response to of the questions raised to the Senate the 16 November 99 by the honourable senators Gustafson , Sparrow and Spivak .
the agriculture and the agroalimentaire
the crisis agricultural to the Manitoba and in Saskatchewan - Position possible of a program of credit agricultural - - program of assistance in case of disaster linked to the income agricultural - - effectiveness of the program - - Payments to the claimants
( response to the questions raised by the Leonard J . Gustafson , the hon. Herbert O . Sparrow and the hon. Mira Spivak the 16 November 99 . )
the crisis agricultural to the Manitoba and in Saskatchewan - Position possible of a program of credit agricultural
the Corporation of the credit agricultural ( SCA ) includes the serious of the situation in which the find good number of farmers of the Prairies .
it has therefore ' on at a mechanism to of bring of way achieving with his clients of the Saskatchewan and of the Manitoba who anticipent of the difficulties to of the help to find of the solutions .
until here , the clients are cent to to their Payments despite the further of the over of the substantially .
, the end of October , perspective per of the accountable were to day to the has national compared to metropolitan per in Saskatchewan .
he not there has not had of increase would of the levels of arrérages , well that they be to the increase .
in Saskatchewan , to the end of October , 1 267 clients were in arrérages compared to 953 to the even date the year last , while that to the Manitoba , these figures were clauses of 243 and would .
he must mention that he there has usually a jet before that the effects of a crisis on the market not the do feel on the levels of arrérages .
the SCA continue therefore of follow the situation of close to the over of the next year .
, this at - this , the better way of help the clients who not of the difficulties is of work closely with them to of find of the solutions who their will of extension this crisis .
in as that society of state federal , the SCA is prepared to play the role of tool of policy public that be him will .
as I the have mentioned , the majority of the clients of the SCA have could to their Payments to their completed .
the program of assistance in case of disaster linked to the income agricultural ( ACRA )
all recently , the government federal has added a contribution de170 million of $ , this who relates the assistance offered by the government of the Canada to more of a billion of $ .
the government of the Canada has made of the changes to the time to the ACRA and to the CSRN to that a more great number of producers be eligible to a assistance financial .
is some of the major changes :
since September , the producers can ask a allowance interim to the as of the ACRA who their allows of body a assistance immediate the release to 60 per of the total of the allowances which they have right for 99 .
the 4 November , 99 , the Minister of the Agriculture and of the Agroalimentaire has announced that the government federal couvrira until to 70 per of the marges negative of the producers for 1998 and 99 .
for the year civil 99 , the producers will choose , a only time , the period of as on which will based the calculating of their allowances .
since September , the businesses agricultural which the year financial is debated to the for of the tax on the income can to immediately a réclamation to the as of the ACRA for 99 .
the changes Regional to the CSRN undoubtedly also the producers to obtain of the funds :
the below of intervention of the income minimum of the CSRN is past of 10 . $ to 20 . $ for a particular and of 20 . $ to 35 . $ for a family of farmers .
the meeting to the CSRN can now do a withdrawal and a Tabled to the over of the even year .
the period of would for the avances on withdrawal has was constitutes to a year ( it was of 90 days ) for the producers who have from a amount Superior to the to which they had right in under of the floors of intervention .
the costs of too - paid for the avances on withdrawal have was reduced .
the producers who the are retirés of the program CSRN will the there reinstate after two years rather that three as this is the case now .
in reason of these changes , the Administration of the ACRA has paid close of 380 million of $ to someone 19 . producers .
of more , a little more of 27 500 producers have from 304 million of $ of their accountable CSRN .
these changes indicate well the commitment of the government of the Canada to to evidence of creativity and of flexibility in concevant of the programs who help the producers who in have the more need , and his will of continue of to of the improvements to of ensure to this that the more great number of producers Canadian possible can benefit of the assistance available .
the business of the Senate
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , with the rectification that I am to to the Hansard , that to say that the bill of bill not will not in two places in even time .
that to also say that the reports of these two committees will made to the Senate .
the honourable senators must be deliver and ensure to this that , if a Committee fact report before the other , the he is proposed of study a report before that the study of the two reports be placed to the order of the day , that be said out .
the Senator Kinsella :
of agreed .
the hon. Eymard G . Corbin :
honourable senators , the Leader Deputy of the government to the Senate can - he me say if we have that a precedent ?
is - this that that the is never fact before ?
the Senator Hays :
I thank the Senator Corbin of his question .
I am that we be indeed on the point of create a new precedent .
I think well that our experts of the procedure me have out the existence of a such precedent .
but they not in have nothing fact .
I in conclude that this practice is new .
the Senator Corbin :
honourable senators , I believe know that a Committee will responsible of some aspects of this bill of bill .
this Committee is authorized to to a report , but this report not will not examined before that the bill of bill not be referred to the other Committee , who will to the turn the report , and the two reports will debated in even time .
pays - you me would how the bill of bill will sent of a Committee to the other , or who the in chargera , if this not is not by our through ?
the Senator Kinsella :
the Clerk the in chargera .
the Senator Hays :
the Senator out that the bill of bill not can the find that to a only place to the time .
he not is already more to the Senate .
we the have referred to the Committee of the Banking with education of we in to report .
I have explained , and we in have spoke yesterday , that the bill of bill will then referred to the Committee of the Affairs foreign .
he not will therefore not examined to more of a place to the time .
he has already was submitted to the Committee of the Banking .
when this Committee in will debated , the Committee of the Affairs foreign the in hoping .
the chairman of this Committee souhaitera can - be the table in even time that the report of the Committee of the Affairs foreign .
I think that this way of proceed will .
if no attempt not is made for debate the Prime report before that the other not we be referred , I not see not how this way of proceed could be judged out .
I hope that this observation assistance the Senator .
the Senator Corbin :
honourable senators , he is here question of a precedent who could have a impact on the operating future of the Senate .
a time that a precedent is established , be parliament to the point for repeat the procedure .
not would - he not more simple for the Prime Committee responsible of study the bill of bill of in to report to the Senate , who inscrirait then a second order to referred of the bill of bill to the other Committee ?
he me seems that this would the way solutions of proceed in the circumstances .
and , the bill of bill not would not all simply ' in Awaiting someone on .
the Senator Hays :
honourable senators , I attention to the hon. Senator that the precedent there already .
we not the are not today today , since we the have fact yesterday .
today today , we force only this who has was fact .
if someone a to the ask , this is well , but , that my agreement with the Leader Deputy of the Opposition , I not am that ask , to of ensure the order , of clarify the that record of the business for that he reflects this who looking in the bleus who you have was has to all , to the place of the a who believe in the é of the Senate of the 24 November , who have was distributed as of as .
the Senator Corbin :
honourable senators , I respecterai the decision of the Senate , but I wish simply to to a implementation in Access in saying that he not would not approach to a such way of proceed by whim .
we should having carefully the procedure .
he me seems that , that the precedent to having in this case , the Prime Committee should study the bill of bill , in to report , then the Senate reopened a other motion to referred of the bill of bill to the second Committee , who in would report , then the two reports would in even time the subject of a debate .
I not like not many the way which we have decided of proceed .
the Senator Hays :
I accept the criticism , honourable senators , if this is well this which he the is .
I then ensure to the senators that I be to the future more prudent for this who is of find of new means of to can of the bills of bill to the Committee .
the hon. Sharon Carstairs :
honourable senators , the Leader Deputy of the government has tried of clarify the situation this after - afternoon , but , in intervening , the Senator Corbin has poses that we have now a problem , because this Prime Committee is given by the Rules of to the report as that he will prepared .
he not can not expect that the other Committee has presented the report .
I recommends that the Committee its the report as that , - this will prepared , but that we orders for to this report that the other Committee has examined the bill of bill .
we respecterions and the Rules .
I add , however , that this is that a very dangerous precedent .
the Senator Hays :
I the as , honourable senators , I accept this criticism .
the Senator Carstairs :
this not is not a criticism .
order DAY THE
bill of bill of implementation in effect of the Agreement on the Station spatiale international civil
second Reading - Adjourned of the debate
- honourable senators , I say all of first that I am delighted of take the speak to about of the bill of bill C - 4 , who governs the participation of the Canada to the too of the great bill scientific and technologique that is the creation of the Station spatiale international .
I attention in from that this bill of bill not has been no controversy to the other place .
let - I of quote all of first the words exaltantes that has what the father of the program spatial Canadian , John H . Chapman :
, the over of the second century of the Confederation , this are the links tissés in the space who maintiendront in place the fabric of the society Canadian all as the move of - and the télégraphe have soudé the provinces blue to the over of the century last .
Mr. . Chapman has then added :
the progress technological we of the exploration spatiale the répercutent in the activities normal of our world .
honourable senators , the bill of bill C - 4 with of the exploration spatiale in the interest of all the Canadians and of the humanity .
the bill of bill C - 4 allows to the Canada of become a partner to on full in the more great business , the construction and the and of the Station spatiale international .
he officialise our participation in as that nation .
our investment in of the bills of science and of Technology spatiales such that the Station spatiale international , are that the scientific , engineers and entrepreneurs Canadian roles a Position important on the market international .
that allows to our country of continue to help to the maltreatment scientific and to our understanding of the Alexander all around .
the Station spatiale international is a symbol of cooperation international and of the effort concerté of the major Nations industrial of the world among which is the Canada in as that partner key .
in his version clear , the Argonauts couvrira a neatly equal to a ground of football and logera a team permanent international of seven members which of the astronautes Canadian spécialisés in the areas of the biotechnologie , of the engineering , of the observation of the Newfoundland and of the telecommunications .
honourable senators , the legislation legislative which we are before relates on the enforcement of the obligations of the Canada to the as of the Agreement on the cooperation Current to the Station spatiale international civil and on the application of the provisions of the Code criminal Canadian to the Canadians to on of the Argonauts .
the parties to the agreed the engage to establish a framework of cooperation international between they in view of the conception detailed , of the development , of the and and of the use , to of the for domains , of a Argonauts international civil .
the bill of bill to the study highlights the legislation Canadian in harmony with the obligations international négociées in the framework of the agreed and , this by , ' the firm resolution of the Canada of participate to this bill be not can more historic .
the history of the participation of the Canada to the bill of Station spatiale international date of the year where the Prime astronaut Canadian , é Garneau , has travelled in the space .
in 1984 , the chairman Reagan had guest of the friends and of the allies to the join to the States - United in view of the construction , of the and and of the use of a Argonauts spatiale in orbite around of the Newfoundland , and this , to of the for domains .
in March 1985 , the Canada accepta the invitation and avisa the NASA that the contribution of the Canada would new on the concept of a system of maintenance devised .
this system not is nothing of least that the generation next of the what spatial Canadian , who will to increase the Argonauts spatiale and to the speak a time that it will in orbite .
in 1988 , the Canada , the States - United , the Europe and the Japan établirent officially a partnership in has a agreed regarding the Argonauts spatiale .
this document states the great principles and the touchstone legal of the cooperation Current to the program of a Argonauts spatiale .
after the strengthens of the Argonauts spatiale in 1993 , the partners have finally guest the Russia to the associate to this who would become a Argonauts spatiale really international .
the 8 April 1997 , during of a conference of press with the chairman Clinton , the Prime Minister of the Canada has réaffirmé the participation of the Canada to the program international of Argonauts spatiale and announced that the Canada powerful the manipulative agile specially .
this télérobot , known under the behalf of with robotics , is designed for operate with a new what manipulative and there to the operations of patchwork and to the upkeep its .
after three years of negotiations , all the parties have signed the new agreed intergouvernemental on the Argonauts spatialele 29 January 1998 , by officially a associated of the Russia .
this agreed for a period of two years for his ratification , who must therefore the to the 29 January of the year 2000 .
the bill Bill C - 4 allows to the Canada of ratify this agreed international and of approve officially our commitment to the regard of this partnership .
in the discussions international , he is always question of the many accomplishments of the Canada in the field spatial , including of the Canadarm .
this who is more important , the success of the Canadarm has spent to the Canada the credibility necessary for the aventurer still more far and illustrious of new progress in the robotics spatiale of forefront , this with the confidence of the country who have a program spatial .
he assure to the as scientific of the Canada a access original to the conditions of microgravité of the space and creates of new benefits technological for the country all around .
today today , the Canada recueille the benefits of his participation to the bill in words of contracts for the industry spatiale Canadian and in words of comforting , the comforting of participate to the a of the more major prouesses of the history in the field of the " .
the Canada the is to a performance equal to three or four time the value of the Investment initial and to the creation of many jobs in the field of the Technology of forefront .
the participation of the Canada to the construction of the Argonauts spatiale has démarré under of excellent auspices .
in December last , we have attended to the implementation in place of the what spatial and of the system of vision artificielle Canadian to the for of the montage of the two first modules of the Argonauts , the module American " Unity " and the module Russian " Zarya " .
in May last , this is with great pride that we have seen Ms Julie Hervieux become the first CIBC to increase to on of the two first modules of the Argonauts .
the year next , Mr. é Garneau simultaneously his third mission in quality of member of the crew of the STS - 97 .
this mission will essentially so to the has of the its solaires of the Station spatiale international and comportera two " in the space Mr. Garneau coordonnera .
AprèsM. é Garneau , Mr. Chris Hadfield simultaneously his second mission .
with all our fellow , we assisterons to the first exit of a Canadian in the space in the human Mr. Hadfield , who will for mission of dramatically the new what robotics of the Canada on the Station spatiale international .
managed this apparatus in place , the Canada and all the other country of the world e with wear and pride how working the what spatial Canadian and the new what robotics who a to the construction of the more great structure spatiale and of the more great laboratory of microgravité never them .
as that this system of maintenance devised will Operational , through to the has of the with robotics to the storage of the what spatial , the astronautes will Canada in orbite of the tasks complex in full effectiveness and in any security to from of the comfort relatif of the modules of the Argonauts spatiale .
in of other words , if the Technology robotics Canadian not had not existed , this Argonauts not would could be built or entretenue with the effectiveness and the strengths The .
in March , the government of the Canada has " to the Agency spatiale Canadian a funding stable and Standing to the as of the program spatial of the Canada .
this decision is of the commitment firm of the government to the regard of the promotion of the Science and of the technologies of forefront on which the support the economy World based on the know and the Canadians for stay to the before - Access in the field .
our investment in the Technology spatiale the day in the right over of our commitments in s of protection of the environment , such that out in the Protocol of Montreal and the agreements of Kyoto .
the Canada is the maker of RADARSAT , the an satellite who has for to our country of take the first place to the world for this who is of the management of the Newfoundland to from of the space .
today today , we produced RADARSAT for monitor the floods , as in the case of the flood of the saying Red to the Manitoba , for support the operations of management of the disasters , as to Kobe , to the Japan , and for better to understand the effects of the War on the people local and their environment , as in the case of the Vietnam .
our investment in the field spatial we allow of to current the découvertes scientific .
through to the experiences which by the scientific world of the space among which the Canadians are recognized for their role atomic , we told more on the Alexander , on the effects of the sun on the Newfoundland and on the way of operating the conditions of microgravité unique , this who we allows of obtain of the information elevating on the system distress - installation , the for , the cerveau and the effects of the been on the body human .
the experiences Canadian in the field of the Science spatiales the penchent , by example , on the problems of health which the cancer and the diseases of the for as the osteoporosis , a illness who an more of a million of Canadians .
our Investment fact current the Innovation , who has of the benefits in our daily .
of our days , we not seem not aware that , each time that we allumons the téléviseur , écoutons the forecasts of the time , which visit to the doctor , allumons our computer portable , take our telephone of voiture or enfilons our shoes of , who absorbent the chocs , we produced of the products and services who have bénéficié of the research spatiale .
our investment exceptions also the industry spatiale , who employ of the thousands of Canadians and has of the income of more de1,4 billion of $ , which 45 per from of the exports , this who is the percentage the more high among the country who have a industry spatiale .
through to the strategy industrial of the Canada , who has fact of the robotics spatiale and of the Lightstations a do strategic , our industry has product of the technologies innovative who are their in in the world around .
of other country industrialized of Prime plan are call to the expertise of the Canada for to of their contribution to the Argonauts spatiale a reality .
EMS Technologies , of Ottawa , has recently result a market of due million of $ in Mitsubishi , to the Japan , for provide the component Electronic of the contribution Japan to the Station spatiale international .
of other commandes could to the value total of the market to 24 million of $ .
by - with all , our commitment to the regard of a sector spatial dynamic is a commitment to our young , our future scientific , engineers and astronautes .
in as of conclusion , I say that the Station spatiale international will to to current the telecommunications , the Science and the Innovation , the observation of the Newfoundland and the exploration spatiale .
the ratification of the bill Bill C - 4 is a step important in this who is a commitment international sustainable and beneficial of the Canada .
the bill of bill , who governs the participation Canadian to this business remarkable , is a not that we franchissons with confidence , to the time where the Canada and the humanity the apprêtent to to a show of géant .
( on the motion of the Senator DeWare , to the behalf of the Senator Kelly , the debate is adjourned . )
the speech of the Throne
the Adresse in response - Motion an end to the debate the eighteenth day of Senate - Continued of the debate
the order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Hays , seconded by the hon. Senator MLA :
that the deliberations to the order of the day for the resuming of the debate on the motion Honourable to the Adopted of a Adresse in response to the speech of the Throne , by by His Excellency the Gouverneure general before the two Houses of the Parliament , the remission the eighteenth day of Senate where the order will was debated ;
and on the motion of amendment of the hon. Senator Kinsella , seconded by the hon. Senator DeWare , that the motion not be not now agreed but that it be amended in deleting the word " eighteenth " and in the replacement by the word " fourteenth " .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I like you remind that I have proposed , as several leaders assistants of the government of the two parties before I , that the interventions in response to the speech of the Throne the remission the eighteenth day of Senate where the order will was debated .
other said , the deliberations would period in eight days of Senate .
the key objection of the Senator Kinsella is that this motion misconduct unduly the number of senators given to speak on this motion .
in fact , he is went until to say that that could be dangerous .
I me see therefore in the obligation of try of him explain the reasons of this motion .
honourable senators , we have had five days of deliberations , with in average , of the interventions of three senators by Senate , this who fact a total of 15 senators to have took the speak , nine of the Opposition and six government .
well that we not be not subject by the rule next , he is however interesting of learn that the paragraph 50 ( 1 ) of the Rules of the House of the Commons states this :
the deliberations on the Order of the day to resuming of the debate on the motion of Adresse in response to the speech of the Throne and on all the amendments there proposed not must not overtake six days of Senate .
honourable senators , this is two days of least that this that I move in my motion .
well heard , the other place has of the rules similar regarding , by example , the debate budget .
how explain this rule of the other place , and why this motion would - it a tradition here ?
that the ask , to my sense , by the fact that the response to the speech of the Throne has always was for the senators the opportunity of to virtually not any what about , and not not only , as the has left hear the Senator Kinselladans the intervention , the plan of action proposed by legouvernement - well that this be desirable .
in of other words , a Senator can ask to take the speak for deal of not any what question , without that his colleagues not in have was solicitors to the pre , and to which they could wish answer .
he there however to the Senate a way for to this such of speech and this is the notice of motion or the notice of inquiry .
after a notice of a day , necessary in the two case , the speech is by .
honourable senators , is the way appropriate of raise of the questions in this House .
nothing not we from of proceed and .
the notice of a day is required for a good reason .
if the speech of the Throne rest recorded to the Paper for too long , be risk of use this section of the order of the day to of other for that the for for .
the Senator Kinsella concluded , in the screening of figures , that the time would to the debate on the speech of the Throne not is not sufficient .
I not to not me moquer of him , but to the page 87 of the é of the Senate , he concluded :
, the pace of two p.m. by day , ... ... ... that would a total of 16 p.m. .
that this scenario , seulement32 senators could comment this who must be , of the point of view of the government , the great bill overall of the session .
least of the third of the members of the Senate could therefore participate to the debate ...
honourable senators , let - I of correct the figures of the Senator Kinsella .
if each Senator can speak pendant15 minutes and if we can spend two p.m. by day to the discussion , then eight senators could each day speak of the Adresse to His Excellency .
by therefore , if we autorisions 16 p.m. of debate - eight days expanded by two p.m. by day - 64 senators could take the speak , be two time more that the number carried by the Senator Kinsella and about the two third of the senators in this House .
be not can not say that this be unreasonable .
that the proposition of the Senator Kinsella , be two p.m. by day for 14 days , this proposal would à112 senators of take the speak .
, my notice , this is that many more of time that the debate not in ask .
the Senator Carstairs :
this is more of senators that he there in has to the total !
the Senator Hays :
in fact , since 1967 , the number way of senators to spoke of the speech of the Throne the figure very exactly to 20,73 .
by therefore , little any the way of neat , the motion guarantees that all the senators who the wish will normally participate to the debate .
of more , and that intéressera my colleagues of the other side , the precedents seem with in favour of 8 days and nonde 14 .
the comment 271.1 of Beauchesne with this :
after that the government has proposed and seconded the motion of Adresse in response to the speech of the Throne , the House has of eight days of Senate to the appreciates for about the debate on the motion .
honourable senators , this is exactly the even comment mentioned in the rules in the other place .
in our House , honourable senators , this was the use one by many , there including by my predecessor , the hon. Senator Graham .
the 2 October 1986 , the Conservatives , by the through of the Senator Doody , have fact approve a motion identical by the Senate .
then , of new , the 13 December 1988 , the senators have of their approval to and occasions to this motion who has was accepted to the unanimously when it has was introduced by the Senator Frith , in 1983 .
in summary , honourable senators , the amendment not is not valid to my notice , not so because that the calculus are erronés , but particularly because that he will to the with of all the precedents and because that he draw alarm the debate on a about , then that the time would enough ample .
the figures are enough éloquents .
( on the motion of the Senator DeWare , the debate is adjourned . )
the Act on the Parliament of the Canada
bill of bill Amend - Second Reading - Adjourned of the debate
the hon. Senator Grafstein ) .
the travesties , the link beyond between the us and the s , has émergé as the - of an of the history .
the logical , of Locke to Bosanquet , has ' the us to the it .
the logiciens not have however not succeeded to understand the spirit poétique .
also the poetry has it émergé indemne to the long of the unwelcome , enveloppée of mystery between history and science , between so and truth , as the more all annonciatrice of the literature and of the culture .
the great criticism Owen Barfield has a day wrote : " - point of touch the more obvious between the sense and the poetry is the travesties . "
the travesties , posing Shelley , has délimité the field flou between the words and the s .
the us was the poetry before the prose .
and this is and that fact divisive the debate on this that please the poetry and the history .
the history is - it truth , or the truth the which it better in the recount or the austérité of the poetry ?
spend cleansing to the era common , to our cybermonde , of the books to the claviers of computer .
the rise quick of the media electronic , who will now soon exceeded by Internet , has forced some pseudo - criticism to support , for we a false clameur , that the age of the literature , and therefore the age of the poetry and of the prose , an to his end .
for paraphrasing Mark Twain , the announcement of the death of the literature is rather premature .
be can support with more of effect that to the age undertakings , the importance of the literature , the sculptured of the poetry , among now still more important that before for a society civil .
the poetry contains the history popular and the memory popular as the history only not can succeed to the to .
how we memories - we the facts historic ?
, the over of the period space of David , he there had the psaumes .
in the war of the Péloponnèse , he there had the Iliade .
in the first era Christian , he there had the Sermon on the montagne .
in the Prime Commonwealth British , he there had the sad poetry of Milton .
the First War World , who is illustrée in the chamber who we around , not is - it not évoquée to said in the poem At report of honour ?
before the arrived of the Europeans to the Canada , the mythes poétiques of the Peoples aboriginal abondaient in our country .
even Jacques Cartier was similarly .
as that he has accosté on the land who the appellerait the Canada , our country is became rich in poètes and in poetry .
more of 1 500 poètes have was published to the Canada .
we have had the happy of welcome to the Senate the late Jean LeMoyne , who we has record visit in as that similarly of infamous .
be me said that the Canada that the more great number of poètes published by capita in the world .
all the country , great and grandchildren , are a regain of life through to the words of their poètes .
we have a great pléiade méconnue of poètes : of Atwood to Callahan , to Klein and to Cohen , of Johnson to Pratt , to Birney and to Scott .
Louis Riel was a similarly which the his have was published .
in French , of LaPointe to Miron , to Legault , to Henault and to Roy , a rich treasury of poetry and of imagination creative continues of ambiguously .
, the there of the next millennium , honourable senators , not appropriate - he not of redéfinir the role of the similarly to the Canada ?
since the 16 century , the similarly official of the Court is considered as a part vital and Canada of the life of the Anglais .
, the end of the years 30 , the Library of Congress , to Washington , has an the idea and the is associated a " similarly - board " .
with this simple bill , we could celebrate the art of the poètes and occurrences the poètes , the Parliament and the people in a great harmony creative .
the approach scheduled in this bill of bill is simple and effective in words of cost :
the Speaker of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of the Commons , seize of our , being the similarly official of the Parliament to from of a list confidentielle of three names Before by a Committee chaired by the bibliothécaire Parliamentary and composed by , of the be General of the Library national , of the archiviste national of the Canada , of the Commissioner to the languages official of the Canada and of the chairman of the Council of the Arts of the Canada .
the duties of the similarly official are minimalistes , and this is wanted .
, the over of the mandate of two years , the similarly official of the Parliament :
has ) cheques of the 9uvres of poetry , including to the for of the ceremonies official of the Parliament ;
b ) my of the sittings of Reading of poetry ;
c ) would the bibliothécaire Parliamentary regarding the contradictory of the Library and the iceberg own to enrich the - this in the field of the culture ;
e ) assure of the duties other to the ask of the chairmen or of the bibliothécaire Parliamentary .
honourable senators , the duties for in this bill of bill the want little complex and little exigeantes .
nothing not should prevent the similarly of write of the poetry .
honourable senators , I you recommends of well to this modest bill of bill .
( on the motion of the Senator Kinsella , the debate is adjourned . )
the Union Monetary European
the report of the Committee of the Affairs foreign - Stands of the debate
the order of the day Order :
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I not rise not the speak for speak of the report , but for ask to the Senate the leave of replace my behalf to , of the Senator Stewart , the of that , - this is now to the retirement .
I think that the debate should be recorded to the behalf of a Senator in service .
the hon. P . Derek Lewis ( His Hon. the Speaker Acting ) :
is - this of agreed , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the debate is order to the behalf of the Senator Hays . )
Affairs Social , Science and Technology
Authorized to the Committee of study the facts new regarding the Suicide and the suicide attended
the order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Carstairs , seconded by the hon. Senator MLA :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology be authorized to to for in to report the facts new s since the Tabled , in June 1995 , of the report final of the Committee Senate Special on the Suicide and the assistance to the suicide entitled :
of the life and of the death .
more particularly , that the Committee be authorized to to :
the legislation in which have was with in implement the recommendations unanimous revitalizing in the report ;
2 . - evolution to the Canada of the different questions scrutinized in the report ;
3 . - evolution to the abroad of the different questions scrutinized in the report ;
that the Committee its the report final to the more later 6 June 2000 . - (
the hon. Senator Kinsella ) .
the hon. ë A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , we , of this side - this , are loans to conclude the debate on this question to this time - this .
the Hon. the Speaker Acting :
you pleasure - he , honourable senators , of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the situation of the aboriginal and their future
inquiry - Continued of the debate
the order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the inquiry of the hon. Senator Gill , calling the attention of the Senate on the situation of the aboriginal to of we to of to the point and of reflect on the measures appropriate for the future . - (
the hon. Senator Watt ) .
the hon. Sharon Carstairs :
honourable senators , I souhaiterais let this inquiry to the behalf of the Senator Watt , but I like speak of this about today today if that you is .
the Hon. the Speaker Acting :
is - this of agreed honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator Carstairs :
honourable senators , each time that I not in my province , to the Manitoba , I rise the road 59 who on by Broken Head , a community aboriginal .
I on before a school called Sergeant socialist Prince School .
the Sergeant socialist Prince has was the military aboriginal the more affirms of the two war global .
he has served in fact to the over of the Second War World .
yet , when the Sergeant Prince and business in him , for 15 years , he not has could vote in the framework of the election federal or provincial .
I have always thought that the better legislation never taken by the very hon. John Diefenbaker , and the government , has was of give to the aboriginal of the country the right of vote to the election federal .
when I on before this school , I think to the situation of the aboriginal .
in effect , because that I have up to Halifax , I have had very little of contacts with the aboriginal .
I the praising sometimes when they were in city , to the spring , sell of the choirs of May , the fleur emblématique of the province .
they frappaient sometimes to the relates and we their achetions always of the choirs .
this was my only touch with the aboriginal in my province .
the aboriginal not make not a part important of the public of the Nova - Nova .
by against , their contribution is certainly important .
however , when I have déménagé in Alberta in 1965 , I me am was in a class of daughters to leSt. Mary s Girls High School , with of the young women of this that be was to the time the Scarcee Reserve , who was stretch to the limit of the city .
this was the only school of studies high where it had the right of go .
these daughters were always weakened to the gap of all the other daughters of the class .
they participaient rarely to the discussions of the class and abandonnaient very quickly the studies .
very little of between they 578 the 10e year , and I not me recall not that a only of between they be arrived in 11e year .
honourable senators , I like power say that the situation has substantially changed since 1965 , but the truth is that it not has not many changed for the aboriginal of the country .
in effect , when I enseignais to Winnipeg in 1981 , I me remind of a young man in the over of geography of 10e year who the is rose and has said of way injurieuse this that he agreed of the aboriginal .
he me has bogged totally stupéfaite .
I me wish stand in the class , in as that professor , and écoutais a barking of 15 years speak of other human , of his fellow of the province of the Manitoba , in débitant of the lies and of the things offensive that he not could have learned that of the mouth of his parents , of his colleagues or of his fellow .
after me be been of the had initial and have began to to of the comments on some of his comments , I have found that he was to a unity of this over on the life of the aboriginal to the Canada and I me am implementation to the thing .
I am not be never came to across of the prejudice of this young man .
I was fascinée by the fact that he not was not unborn to the Canada .
this was a 1915 .
he was came to the Canada to the age of two or three years .
his parents were educated , well éduqués .
the father was professor of mathématiques ; his mother enseignait to the Faculty of art dental .
this was of the people educated .
yet , this barking had a opinion so racist on our aboriginal that this was it .
I i therefore that I not would not should be if vehemence when I have was convoquée to the school of my daughter Catherine when it was in 6e year .
by on of a bad experience that it had vindication in 5e year , we had decided of the send in a other school .
impossible in a new community , Cathi not said not great - something , this is - to - say until to the day where he there has had a discussion in his class on the aboriginal .
the on have fact of the comments negative .
new in this class , Cathi , to the great pride of his mother , has sudden said that the on not knew not well of what he was question .
it has reminded the fact that I was retournée to the education after his birth and that I had committed a Crie of the North of the Alberta as gouvernante .
this that Cathi knew of the aboriginal , it the had learned of Theresa .
the - this him had unequal this that he there had of better in his community .
honourable senators , little after have was elected to the Assembly legislative of the Manitoba , I am feat visit the school of the a The grew .
an Lathlin , who was then Leader and is now Minister to the within of the government of the Manitoba , had transféré the on of the Division school of Kelsey to The grew for that they can be éduqués in the school of the contingency .
he believed that they not Cree not in their school the experience cultural that they were live , that this school not could not answer to their needs and he wanted that they headed in them , in their community .
Mr. . Lathlin me had delve to visit the school .
I must say that this that I there have seen was enough remarkable .
in 1965 , the on the ennuyaient , but in this school aboriginal where be enseignait the customs and the language aboriginal in more of the rest of the program school of the province , the on were pétillants and débordaient of enthusiasm .
this was remarkable .
the on aboriginal have of , won the majority of the price to the exposure scientific of the North of the Manitoba .
this was a event remarkable .
honourable senators , I have seen the even phenomenon when I have visited the school For of the Earth to Winnipeg .
this is can - be for that that I am a if ardente partisan of the self government for the aboriginal .
I wish to this principle because that I am outset that the aboriginal not will never to the progress that they should to as that they not the administreront not them - same , and we have the responsibility of to in so that they parviennent to this self government .
honourable senators , this is a secret of polichinelle to the Senate - and I know that number of between you are well the Affairs aboriginal - that he there has - least of aboriginal that of not - aboriginal in the institutions of education post .
certainly , of the progress have was made .
he there has now more of aboriginal who are doctors , lawyers and dentists .
we have even the opportunity of be among we , in this Room , not least of five senators aboriginal who are all a important contribution to our institution .
but this is low .
of other statistics fell that the Peoples aboriginal this the rate of hospitalization the more high to the Canada , as to the birth , this who is tragic , that in the young .
these Late are account to of the accidents , to of the fire and - this who is the worse tragedy of all - to of the suicides , the young aboriginal what the rate of suicide the more high in the young to the Canada .
by , , no of between you not the surprendra of learn that , in the aboriginal , the diabetes is endémique .
a doctor has even comparé this illness to the small vérole or to the rougeole , that we have made with we in as that immigrants counterparts on this mainland and who have has the death of a number record of victims .
now , they long prematurely to because of the diabetes instable .
we know that the diabetes can the control by a diète .
be not affecte not enough of resources to the fight against the diabetes for that this illness not kills more the aboriginal to the Canada .
no of between you not the surprendra not more of know that the aboriginal have still the rate of unemployment the more high .
he not is not came that 90 per of the aboriginal Regional to the work be to the unemployment .
he not is not came in the North of the Manitoba that the children have of the speedily with the justice because that , frankly , these children it that he worth better live to the centre of detention with of Winnipeg that in their own community aboriginal .
honourable senators , when the Senator Gill has spoke of his objectives and of his aspirations , I not have could me prevent of think that we educated all enormous of his presence to the Senate .
we in educated all because that he we will constantly , to the like of the senators Watt , Chalifoux and Adams , the questions to of the effects on the aboriginal .
the aboriginal have the right of be treaties as of the citizens to on full of this country .
this is therefore say that he must their to the same opportunities that to all the other Canadians of benefit of care of health , of a education and of a government of quality .
we are now since a sure number of years a response if to the report of the Board Royal on the Peoples aboriginal .
we not have not received of response if .
I please each of between you of such of the government to the power that he provide the more quickly possible a response if .
honourable senators , to the over of the past weeks , I have followed with interest the visit of the members in the province of British - British in the framework of their study and of their assessment of the treaty nisga' has .
the racism for who , to my notice , is unfortunately always this in our society the is our .
, my great regret , he is secular by a party policy that I consider détritivore .
of the Senators :
hear !
the Senator Carstairs :
I give to my colleagues aboriginal the insurance that I the support and that I the encourage in the any of their fight to to to of the members of their people of enemies citizens Canadian .
the Senator Kinsella :
of the Senators :
hear !
the hon. Jerahmiel S . Grafstein :
honourable senators , the speech of the Senator Carstairs is united .
he the can that we be in are of create of more great problems for the future .
I am sensitive to the question on which he the is by .
a other something me agace in the speech of the Senator Carstairs .
the report of the commission Royal wended of the comments probantes regarding the Late of children , the problems révoltants in the field of the education and the problems of order developmentally and an quasi conceived to with .
why the government not has he not still responded with effect before these problems ?
is - this only a question of money or must - he there see other something ?
the Senator Carstairs :
Senator Grafstein , I not think not that this be only a question of money .
I believe that he there has that a lack of will policy .
this lack of will policy will perdurer because that he not there has not enough of Canadians not aboriginal of all the horizons who the are montrés loans to defend the because of our Peoples aboriginal .
the Senator Grafstein :
the hon. Senator Chalifoux is here .
it and I we we are by on the matter of the without - from of Toronto .
it has them also actively that I to convince the government of the deal to the problem of the without - from .
we are enchantés that be has responsible a Minister of coordinating this effort .
it has fact a magnificent work in all the country .
of more , we hope , in the sillage of the speech of the Throne , power convince the cabinet of act quickly and liberalized .
such are our expectations .
that the said , in struck the matter of the without - from of Toronto , I me am heurté to a very puzzling problem .
in under of the Constitution of the Canada - I not know not if this is the section 95 or 92 - , this is of the government that matters the Indian and the Lands Indian .
however , I have was surprised of see that , notwithstanding the Constitution , the departments not assumaient not their obligations Constitutional to the regard of the Indian who live to the outside of the reserves .
of where the seriously problem which we are face to Toronto , that where a great majority of the without - from are of the aboriginal who live outside of the reserves , to the outside of the Lands Indian .
however , the government not has no responded opposite to this deficiency in this who with the obligation made by the Constitution .
then , who is responsible ?
I ask to the Senator , who just of to a very course speech , if it has exploré this deficiency in s of responsibility and if we , of this House , can to someone something for be to this irresponsabilité constitutional .
the Senator Carstairs :
honourable senators , I like say to the hon. Senator that this problem constitutional not the is asked that in the case of the without - from , but that I me am battue in my riding for a question similar who with the care of health for the children aboriginal .
when a child is confirmed of a community aboriginal and transféré in a service for children of a centre of the Science of the health , all the care easier to this child are to the for of the government federal because that he the is of a child alive in a community aboriginal who is therefore of the responsibility federal .
however , for of the reasons that I not understand not , the province of the Manitoba , is responsible of the services of care to home .
by on of a dispute of jurisdiction between the Minister provincial of the Health and the counterpart federal , these children aboriginal remain often to the Hospital because that , a time that they expanding in their community , no service of care not their is assured .
the taxpayers Canadian pay therefore more for that these children be soignés to the Hospital .
this who is more important , these children are separating of their family and of their community and not can not maximiser their opportunity of guérison in the with of the people who the unhappy and the in roles the better .
I would well wanted have a solution to propose to the Senator .
all this that I then him say is that we must to many of other debates as , this by the Senator Gill , in will that the other place the there interest .
the hon. Sheila Finestone :
honourable senators , this Exchange and the interesting statement of the Senator Carstairs me have fact think to the bill of bill C - 31 , that I have had the déplaisir of shepherding to the House of the Commons to the beginning of the years 80 .
, the time , we dimensions the question of the rights of the women valour in tribe .
, the end , he the was of to end to a aberration by which a aboriginal who with for woman a not - aboriginal could would to his children the rights learning to his birth and other rights which he could the an , then that if the sister of this man had to by a not - aboriginal , it weakening all his rights tribal , all his rights to the land and that the right of live in the contingency .
it not could nothing would of the heritage ancestral to his female of second or of third generation .
this bill of bill was to to the women of go on the Lands réservées to the aboriginal , their territory ancestral , and of fact of all the rights and privileges accorded to their brothers , uncles and Fathers .
unfortunately , he not there has not was provided enough of funds for fund the construction of houses or of schools for to to the children and to the families in this situation of the integrate fully in their companies respective .
he is unfortunate that we not are not built the such of facilities who could answer to the needs of these families in s of housing or provide of the schools for receive these children , this who has led to a dysfonctionnement social to the place of facilitate the life of these women and of their family .
her the Senator could - it we propose a way whatever who we would to we , to the Senate , and to our colleagues aboriginal of exercise a some pressure on the other place , for respect the commitments , constitutional or not , who are of the values fundamental in the society Canadian for that we can all be gathered in a only people ?
the Hon. the Speaker good tempore :
honourable senators , the period scheduled for this debate is completed .
you pleasure - he of the extend for to to her the Senator Carstairs of answer ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator Carstairs :
honourable senators , the Senator Finestone has specifically asked this that our House could to .
I believe that we have two choice .
all of first , we can have use to the Committee Senate Standing of the Peoples aboriginal .
this is the Committee who is responsible of study , and who has examined this such of question .
however , he so sometimes that he be necessary of own a little our committees .
I believe that this that the Committee apprécierait without doubt , and this was the case by the past , this would the Tabled of a motion to the Senate his our desire of see the Committee of the Peoples aboriginal about a some study .
the Senator Finestone :
that this motion be proposed .
( on the motion of the Senator Carstairs , the debate is adjourned . )
Affairs legal and Constitutional
Authorized to the Committee of clerical of the services
the hon. Lorna Milne , pursuant to the notice march November 99 , move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional be authorized to clerical the services of counsel , technical , employees of office or other elements necessary for to of the bills of bill , the substance of bills of bill and the forecasts budget who him have was déférées .
( the motion is agreed . )
Authorized to the Committee to according his deliberations by the media of information electronic
the hon. Lorna Milne , pursuant to the notice march November 99 , move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional be authorized to to the Electronic of his deliberations public by the media of information electronic , of manner to him the least possible his business .
( the motion is agreed . )
Affairs Social , Science and Technology
Authorized to the Committee of sit in even time that the Senate
the hon. Marjory LeBreton , to the behalf of the Senator Kirby , pursuant to the notice of the 24 November 99 , move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology be authorized to sit for the sittings of the Senate of the Monday 29 November , of the Tuesday 30 November and of the Wednesday 1 December 99 , and that the application of the paragraph 95 ( 4 ) of the Rules be suspended to this regard .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , the motion who we is introduced fate a little of the plain in this sense that no hour not is set .
I understand that Tuesday approach and that we not will not the opportunity of to the question before , but I like to the least know to what time the Committee wish the meet .
I with the question because that the use would that the Committee seat to a hour given , even if the Senate sitting still to this time - that .
the motion not said nothing to this about .
the Senator LeBreton :
for Monday , this not is not a problem .
Monday , we siégerons to 13 p.m. .
the Hon. the Speaker good tempore :
pleasure - he to the honourable senators of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
( the Senate the adjourned to the Tuesday 30 November 99 , to 14 p.m. . )
debates of the Senate ( Hansard )
wondering Session , Session st ,
volume 6,401 , Issue 13
the Tuesday 30 November 99
the hon. Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker
table of the Contents
' ' '
the rights of the man
the over go
the Health fought of Ottawa
Affairs routine
Affairs Social , Science and Technology
Tabled of the Prime report of the Committee
the Act on the stopped judicial
bill of bill Amend - Report of the Committee
the adjournment
Library of the Parliament
notice of motion Motion the Committee Joint Standing to sit in even time that the Senate
the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe
the Organization for the security and the cooperation in Europe - Position eighteenth session Annual of the Assembly Parliamentary held to St. - Pétersbourg , in Russia - Report of the report of ladélégation Canadian
the Organization for the security and the cooperation in Europe - Position eighteenth session Annual of the Assembly Parliamentary held to St. - Pétersbourg , in Russia - Notice of inquiry
PERIOD PERIOD question
the transport
v. of the operations of the company air Inter - Canadian
the v. of the operations of Inter - Canadian - Position possible of a review by the Committee of the transport and of the Communications
the v. of the operations of the company air Inter - Canadian - Position possible of a assistance government
the Affairs Intergovernmental
the Quebec - - conditions future of a referendum - - role of the Senate
the transport
the v. of the operations of the company air Inter - Canadian - Position response of the government
the v. of the operations of the company air Inter - Canadian - - effect on the small communities
the heritage
the possible of a behind in the construction of the new Museum of the War
the funding of the new Museum of the War
Élections Canada
the Manitoba - Position loss of data negotiates
the transfer of the data personal - - principle of the consent
the Manitoba - Position loss of data negotiates - - procedures of security regarding the data personal
the fisheries and the Oceans
the provinces Maritimes - Position decision of the Court Supreme confirmant the rights of fishing of the aboriginal - - funds for to the Purchase of for for the aboriginal
answers delayed to of the questions Oral
the Solicitor General
the Service Canadian of the Intelligence of security - Position loss of documents classifiés - - review of the Committee of monitoring of the activities of the Intelligence of security
the trade international
the Agreement of free - Exchange North - American - - proceedings his by a society Processors in make of the loss of a contract of Purchase of water in vrac - Position Position of the government
the ORDRE DAY THE
the speech of the Throne
motion of is in response - Continued of the debate
privileges , Rules and procedure
Adopted of the second report of the Committee
third report of the Committee - Stands of the debate
the SENATE
the Tuesday 30 November 99
the Senate is met to 14 p.m. , the Speaker the to the Chair .
prayers .
the rights of the man
the over go
the hon. Calvin Woodrow Ruck :
, the beginning of the War , a great number of members of the RCMP have , seems he , decided of troquer the brutes of the police had against , of the forces Armed .
they the are " in the they of land , the Shipping and the they of the air .
the enough of the Mounted Royal of the Canada the are anywhere substantially dégarnis .
the officer of the RCMP responsible of the détachement of Sydney has past a announcement in the are local for hire of the young physiquement Regional in the enough of this body of police .
these two young black were of the number of those who souhaitaient the enrôler .
the officer in as to Sydney not knew not what to of these two young black .
, the time , no Noir not had never joined the enough of the RCMP - of the least not to the Cape - Cape .
this officer the is ' in report with the Headquarters General of the Division H to Halifax for ask of the instructions on the way of with the problem asked by these two young black .
the members of the détachement of Halifax , not knowing not too them not more this that he understandable of to , the are to their turn ' in report with the Headquarters General in our great capital federal , Ottawa .
I not me remind more the they the are qualified or not .
always is - he that or the a or the other not has never fact part of the RCMP .
by the on , the rumour the is widespread that which the RCMP Rouyn to the within of the community black .
of other people have wanted propose their Security , but they not have not had of opportunity not more .
the officer responsible to Ottawa has full the responsible to Halifax of let these candidates the to to the review , adding that they not the down can - be not .
he seems indeed that they not the have not succeeded because that or the a or the other of these two men not has never were the tunique Red .
this is a good indication of this who the was to the time .
the change the is this in Nova - Nova and , I believe , , to the Canada .
he there has now a great number of black in the enough of the RCMP and I believe understand that they are of the good work .
they the seize of their duties , and this , to the behalf of the justice and of the equity for all .
we let these changes the produce and this is very encouraged for the members of our community .
our young men can now aspire to of many positions for which , for of the years , be believed that they not réunissaient not the qualities intensive .
all that has changed .
good number of our young men and women have fact of the studies academic , have from their had in right and have then open a s of lawyers .
w ( 1410 )
the Ombudsman of the Nova - Nova is a young Noir and he the is that this is my son , Douglas Ruck .
, my knowledge , he has was the Prime Noir of the Nova - Nova to receive a such honour .
he is come here , to Ottawa , for speak of the one of create a body national of this such .
he has any travelled .
the over of the change as on the Nova - Nova in this who with the Eligibility and the believe of is .
be can to the work portion that the resources necessary be with to our clause and portion that we be treaties as the other .
this is and that it the on .
he there has of major improvements .
good number of our young , daughters and boys , will to the university and are by constantly of good jobs .
is in large where we in are .
we continue of ' to the young of not not abandon their studies , of the supplying and of help to the development of their province and of their country .
of the Senators :
hear !
the Health fought of Ottawa
the hon. Jean - Robert Gauthier :
honourable senators , the day of the 29 November 99 is a date to at in the history of the Canada .
three judges of the Court divisionnaire of the Ontario have record a decision unanimous in favour of the - of the Health fought .
these judges have said that the Board of restructuring of the services of health of the government of the Ontario had acted diagrams in décrétant the closure of this Hospital , the only Hospital university French in Ontario .
the Canadians French of the Ontario the rejoice of this decision , but have anxieux opposite to the reaction of the government summer , who the is settled of refer the passing to the commission of restructuring in mentionnant that this is to it to with this matter .
this even commission the is reluctant , yesterday , of answer that the only mandate was of sent the services of health in Ontario .
we are in a situation someone little difficult .
the question who the with is of know who will the courage and the integrity for from to the actions .
the courts have tranché , this is to the turn of the government of act .
finally , I thank of the further of the heart all the stakeholders who have invested time and money to that the francophones of the Ontario can finally obtain justice .
the Senator homme man :
hear !
the hon. Marie - P .
honourable senators , as the said if well the Senator Gauthier , November 99 what in the history of the Canada as a time historic .
yesterday , the Court divisionaire of the Ontario has of be of because to the Health fought .
the court has should that the decision of the Board of restructuring of the services of health of the Ontario of reduce the services to the Health fought bafouait the principle even of protection and of respect of the rights of the minorities , principle defended by the Constitution Canadian .
the court has therefore cancelled the guidelines of the commission .
this morning , the daily - fervent wrote that Ms Gisèle Lalonde , chairman of through Monfort , adjective the judgment of the more great victory never take by the community Ontario and even Canadian .
honourable senators , the chairman of through Monfort , Ms Lalonde , the chairman of the board of Administration of the Hospital , Ms Michelle of Courville - Nicol , the Association Canadian French of the Ontario , the hon. Senator Jean - Robert Gauthier , and that all those and those who have worked and behind for save the unique centre hospital of language French in Ontario , deserve our sincere congratulations .
Affairs routine
Affairs Social , Science and Technology
Tabled of the Prime report of the Committee
the hon. Michael Kirby , chairman of the Committee Senate permanent of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology , tabled the Prime report of the Committee pursuant to the section 104 of the Rules .
( the text of the report is to the Journals of the Senate of today today . )
the Act on the stopped judicial
bill of bill Amend - Report of the Committee
the hon. Lorna Milne , chairman of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional , its the report following :
the MARDI 30 November 99
the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional has the honour of to the
second REPORT
your Committee , which has was obedience the an of bill C - 7 , Act amend the Act on the stopped judicial and a other bill in make , has , pursuant to the order of referred of the Wednesday 17 November 99 , examined obedience bill of bill and in fact now report with the amendments following :
page 2 to 4 , to the section 6 :
has ) replace the line 40 , page 2 , by this who following :
" 6.3 ( 1 ) - regarding who looking the apply to the this section .
" child " Nobody citizen of least of 10 - eight years .
" human vulnérable " Nobody who , in reason of the age , of a prohibits or of other circumstances temporary or permanent :
has ) be is in Position of addiction by report to of other people ;
b ) be short a risk of abuse or of abuse more high that the public in General of the on of a human in Position of authority or of confidence by report to it .
( 2 ) - Commissioner must include in the " ;
b ) replace , in the version French , the line 43 , page 2 , by this who following :
" Royal of the Canada a indication can " ;
c ) replace the lines 3 and 4 , page 3 , by this who following :
" nation for a offence sexual having to the as to the regard of which he him has was over " ;
d ) add , after the line 5 , page 4 , this who following :
" ( 9 ) - Governor in board can , by ascertain , amend the as for there add or in retrancher a offence sexual . " ;
e ) change the along undertakings of paragraph , and that of Presented of the references , who in clauses .
has ) are of the lines 10 and 11 , page 5 ;
b ) are of the lines 16 to 18 , page 5 ;
c ) change the along alphabétique of the limited , and that of Presented of the references , who in clauses .
3 . Page 5 : add after the line 33 , page 5 , this who following :
4 . Page 6 : add , after the line 3 , page 6 , this who following :
" as
( section 8.1 )
as
( paragraphs 6.3 ( 1 ) and ( 9 ) )
1 .
the offences to the provisions following of the Code criminal :
has ) the paragraph 7 ( 4.1 )
( offences of order body involving the children to the abroad , by action or omission ) ;
b ) the section 151 ( contacts sexual - child of least of 14 years ) ;
c ) the section 152 ( incitation to of the contacts sexual - child of least of 14 years ) ;
d ) the section 153 ( human in situation of authority by report to a human citizen of to the least 14 years , but of least of 18 years ) ;
e ) the section 153.1 ( human in situation of authority by report to a human to a prohibits ) ;
f ) the section 155 ( inceste ) ;
g ) the section 159 ( relations them anales ) ;
p.m. ) the paragraph 160 ( 3 ) ( bestialité in presence of a child age of least of 14 years , or incitation of a child of least of 14 years to make the bestialité ) ;
i ) the ( 163 ( 1 ) has ) ( corruption of moeurs ) ;
j ) the ( 163 ( 2 ) has ) ( corruption of moeurs ) ;
k ) the section 163.1 ( pornography with ) ;
l ) the section 168 ( implementation to the as of things obscènes ) ;
Mr. ) the section 170 ( father , mother or admissibility who there of entremetteur ) ;
No. ) the section 171 ( officer of home who allows of the actions sexual avenues ) ;
o ) the section 172 ( corruption of children ) ;
elite ) the section 173 ( actions indécentes ) ;
q ) the paragraph grew ( 2 ) ( live of the products of the prostitution of a human citizen of least of 18 years ) ;
C ) the paragraph grew ( 2.1 )
( live of the products of the prostitution of a human citizen of least of 18 years ) ;
s ) the paragraph grew ( 4 ) ( allocations or attempt of allocations of the services sexual of a human citizen of least of 18 years ) ;
from ) the section 271 ( abuse sexual ) ;
u ) the paragraph 272 ( 1 ) and the ( 272 ( 2 ) has ) ( abuse sexual with a weapon to gun ) ;
v ) the paragraph 272 ( 1 ) and the ( 272 ( 2 ) b ) ( abuse sexual without weapon to gun ) ;
w ) the section 273 ( abuse sexual serious ) ;
there ) the ( 273.3 ( 1 )
z ) the ( 273.3 ( 1 )
z .6 )
the section 463 in this who has with to the attempt of make a offence having to the its as or to the dictated , after the fact , of the perpétration of a such offence .
has ) the paragraph 146,594 ( 1 ) ( reports sexual with a human of the marital féminin citizen of least of 14 years ) ;
b ) the paragraph 146,594 ( 2 ) ( reports sexual with a human of the marital féminin citizen of 14 years or more but of least of 16 years ) ;
c ) the section 151 ( séduction of a human of the marital féminin citizen of 16 years or more but of least of 18 years ) ;
d ) the section 153 ( reports sexual with his great - daughter , and cetera , or the used ) ;
e ) the section 155 ( sodomie or bestialité ) ;
f ) the section 157 ( actions of grossière indécence ) ;
g ) the section 166 ( father , mother or admissibility who because the déflorement ) ;
p.m. ) the section 167 ( officer of home who allows the déflorement ) .
has ) the section 144 ( rape ) ;
b ) the section 145 ( attempt of rape ) ;
c ) the section 178 ( attentat to the pudeur of a human of the marital féminin ) ;
d ) the section 156 ( attentat to the pudeur of a human of the marital male ) ;
e ) the section 245 ( Ways of fact simple ) ;
f ) the paragraph 246 ( 1 ) ( Ways of fact with intention of make a act criminal ) "
respectfully submitted ,
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when consideration - we this report ?
( on the motion of the Senator Milne , the study of the report is placed to the order of the day of the next Senate . )
the adjournment
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the section 58 ( 1 ) p.m. ) of the Rules , I move :
that , when the Senate the adjourns today today , he remains adjourned until to tomorrow , the Wednesday 1 December 99 , to 13 p.m. 30 .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the leave is - it granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
Library of the Parliament
notice of motion Motion the Committee Joint Standing to sit in even time that the Senate
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I give notice that tomorrow , the mercredi1er December 99 , I move :
that the Committee Joint Standing of the Library of the Parliament be authorized to sit for the sittings and the adjournments of the Senate ; and
that a message be sent to the House of the Commons for the in inform .
... more later ...
the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe
the Organization for the security and the cooperation in Europe - Position eighteenth session Annual of the Assembly Parliamentary held to St. - Pétersbourg , in Russia - Report of the report of ladélégation Canadian
leave to was granted of to to the Tabled of the reports of delegations Delegations :
the hon. Jerahmiel S . Grafstein :
honourable senators , I have the honour of table , in the two languages official , the report of the delegation Canadian of the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe , who has represented the Canada to the eighteenth session Annual of the Assembly Parliamentary of the Organization for the security and the cooperation in Europe , held to St. - Pétersbourg , in Russia , of the 6 to the 12 July 99 .
the Organization for the security and the cooperation in Europe - Position eighteenth session Annual of the Assembly Parliamentary held to St. - Pétersbourg , in Russia - Notice of inquiry
leave to was granted of to to the notice of inquiry :
the hon. Jerahmiel S . Grafstein :
honourable senators , I give notice that , Thursday next , the 2 December 99 , I call the attention of the Senate on the report of the delegation Canadian of the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe , who has represented the Canada to the eighteenth session Annual of the Assembly Parliamentary of the Organization for the security and the cooperation in Europe , held to St. - Pétersbourg , in Russia , of the 6 au12 July 99 .
PERIOD PERIOD question
the transport
v. of the operations of the company air Inter - Canadian
the hon. ë A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , my question the is to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
I am course that the Minister , who just also of the Canada Atlantic , has took note of the fact that the a of the carriers air of our region not is more in operation these days - this .
that has a impact direct not only on the Airports of the region , but also on a important reach of the workers .
w ( 1420 )
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , unfortunately , I not have not had the opportunity of read or of hear the statement made by the chairman of Inter - Canadian .
I believe understand that Inter - Canadian continues of have of the talks with his major partners , this is - to - say his employees , NAV CANADA , Canadian and of other Insurance .
the purpose is of solve some problems and of ensure the any of the services .
be me said also that the service Air is as to all the destinations expressed by Inter - Canadian to on three places where of other solutions are available .
that is well the period of uncertainty in which is - the sector of the transportation Air .
that highlights still more the focus on the principles out by the Minister of the Transport to the House of the Commons and publicly .
I will repeat these principles here for the radical of the honourable senators .
the statement of principles émise by the Minister énumérait clear the five objectives of the policy public of the government , this is - to - say the protection of the consumers against the price inordinate ; the - of the services to the small communities , this who concern particularly the hon. Senator ; the protection of the rights and the concerns of the employees ; the - of the competition in the legislation of the possible ; the control Canadian in the facts .
these objectives have those of the government .
the v. of the operations of Inter - Canadian - Position possible of a review by the Committee of the transport and of the Communications
the hon. ë A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I thank the Minister of his response .
I note that he has an in his response the statement in which the Minister of the Transport has statement these five principles for the first time to St. John , to the New - Brunswick , to the end of the was or to the beginning of the fall .
the Minister of the Transport has repeatedly these principles when he has before before the Committee Senate Standing of the transport and of the Communications and when he has appeared before the Committee Standing of the transport of the House of Commons .
that seems be the - cornerstone of the response of the government to the problem of Inter - Canadian , who is well real .
the 13 August , then that the problem not was that appréhendé , the government has invoqué the power extraordinary provided to the section 47 of the Act on the transport .
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I acknowledge the concern implicit in the question of the hon. Senator .
however , he should rather address his question to the chairman of the Committee .
I not like not spokesmen the authority of the Committee in the s .
the Senator Kinsella :
honourable senators , I wanted address my question to the chairman of the Committee .
in effect , by courtesy , I have tried of the join , but be me has said that it not would not in city of any the week .
the Canada Atlantic and of other places of the is of the Canada are a interruption of the services air regional .
this is a fact .
this not is not a situation abstraite that appréhendait the government when he has invoqué the section 47 .
the ascertain has was referred to the Committee .
I have attended to some of the meetings of the Committee when he has examined the five principles out by the Minister .
, - this not think he not that some measures should be taken to that our Committee of the transport can the meet this week ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I know that the Minister is very aware of the situation .
in fact , he continues of the follow of close .
we think that he not there will no perturbation important of the Liaison with the communities expressed by Inter - Canadian .
, some places , unfortunately , the interruption of the service by Inter - Canadian not will no impact real , as this is the case to Sydney where all service had already was from before this day .
the question of the hon. Senator is important .
the Minister continues of monitor the situation .
I bring certainly the concerns of the hon. Senator to the Minister and , to the first opportunity , to the chairman of the Committee .
I me sense very difficulty to the comfortable of say that a Committee Senate should the meet other that by on of the decision of the Committee and of his chairman .
the v. of the operations of the company air Inter - Canadian - Position possible of a assistance government
the hon. Donald H . Oliver :
my question has with to the situation of the society Inter - Canadian , the transporteur regional independent the more important to the Canada .
as the Senator Kinsella the has said , this transporteur Air regional connection the people of the region of the Atlantic .
since three days , however , of the hundreds and of the hundreds of travellers have seen their bills seriously disrupts by the interruption of the services and the - to the soil of the had of this company .
this last saying it - even work to a plan of survival .
given of that his survival depends including of the granting immediate of a assistance of 15 million of $ , that is - this that the government of the Canada is prepared to to for the help to answer now to his needs financial pressants ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , the government of the Canada is prepared to to in so that no centre not be left without service .
as that I far , he not there has not for the time of centre where he not there not of service of alternative .
the Minister has said that he would follow the situation .
he is surely in communication with the responsible of Inter - Canadian .
this that he is prudent of to for the time , of the notice of the government , this is of continue to monitor the situation and ensure to this that a service of alternative be available .
the Senator Oliver :
honourable senators , the hon. Minister has said that as that he far , he not there has no centre in the region of the Atlantic who be without service .
however , the services have was seriously disrupts .
many of people have seen their bills of trip retardés and have was incommodés because that the service has was interrompu and that the had have was finger to the soil .
in his response to the Senator Kinsella , the Leader of the government has said that he there had of other opportunities .
this not is certainly not a solution permanent .
the Minister would - he the please of we say what legislation permanent the government will for that Inter - Canadian reprenne his prohibit soon , with a plan Standing ?
by the past , the government has helped , financially and other , the Airlines air Canadian .
that will he to for a transporteur who connection the region of the Atlantic ?
the Senator Boudreau :
this is the question the more important who concern the Minister of the Transport and the government .
the solution permanent must to that of the objectives of policy that I have out he there has little of time .
the solution permanent will it a place to Inter - Canadian or to a other transporteur , we not can the say for the moment .
in pending , we must ensure to this that the communities not be not private of services .
as that I far , they have of the services in this time .
he there has a solution of alternative in all the communities .
the Affairs Intergovernmental
the Quebec - - conditions future of a referendum - - role of the Senate
the hon. Douglas Roche :
honourable senators , I have a question to for to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
as the surveys the indicate , a strong majority of the Canadians of the Western support the Position firm that the Prime Minister has agreed to the regard of the sovereignists of the Quebec .
even if the government Mr. Bouchard accept the Truce of four years that has proposed the Prime Minister , that not excludes not the need of continue of for the weakened political and legal for to opposite to all referendum to the future .
w ( 1430 )
as the Prime Minister has ' this question on the been , the Leader of the government believe he that the Senate has a role to play for help of way important to promote a discussion test and manifold on the future of a Canada united ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , all Senator has certainly the possible of raise this question to the Senate .
of any obviously , it concern cleansing all the senators .
I me am well to this that the opinions of the senators be taken in consideration in all the discussions on the questions that has raised the Senator .
the Prime Minister not has not still said how he could decide of to the important about of the or of the question and of the majority .
I am course that the senators will a opportunity of express their point of view on these questions very important .
the transport
the v. of the operations of the company air Inter - Canadian - Position response of the government
the hon. Ethel Cochrane :
honourable senators , my question the is to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
he there has three days , the chairman of the company air Inter - Canadian has wrote a letter to the Minister of the Transport .
in is a which :
the its is to you inform that the company Inter - Canadian the is finally in the of despair which we you have alert openly for of the months .
since the was , when has was raised for the first time the question of the taken of the control of Air Canada by the society Onex , the attention of the government the is concentrée on the future of the two major companies air .
why , to the over of this process , the government has he fact ignored of the concerns of the companies air regional and of their passengers ?
why that not the has he not put when the chairman of the company Inter - Canadian has alert the Minister of the Transport , he there has several months , that this process of merger of the major companies air would of serious consequences for the carriers regional and their passengers ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , the Benefit of the service to all the Canadians has always was to the centre of the concerns of the Minister of the Transport and of the government , and it the will .
the manner which it could change the fate particular of a transporteur to a time of is a other question .
but he rest that , that a over fundamental of the policy government , he would maintain the service in all the regions Canadian , there including in the small communities that connection Inter - Canadian .
I not can comment the opinions or the actions of the chairman of this company .
however , I can forward of the comments on the Position of the government and I believe that the principle of the service to the small communities will to the heart of the policy government .
the v. of the operations of the company air Inter - Canadian - - effect on the small communities
the hon. Ethel Cochrane :
since two days , be lead that he there has of the losses of jobs challenges in Inter - Canadian .
the number of the losses of employment dépasserait widely the 800 or 900 employees of this company air .
he must be the many workers who are will to the maintenance of the aircraft in the Airports desservis by Inter - Canadian .
their jobs are also threatened .
by example , I know that as Sunday , be before - yesterday , of the members of the staff to the soil have was ' to at to the airport of Stephenville close of in I , to Newfoundland - Newfoundland .
I attention also that he not there had not of service to be of midnight Saturday night between the airport of Stephenville , to Newfoundland - Newfoundland , and the land firm to the Canada .
the government has he thought to the effect of domino who the happening and to the serious impact that he could there have on the small communities of the Canada Atlantic , of the Quebec and of , ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
in this who with the service to Stephenville , the hon. Senator refers that he not there had not of service Air to Stephenville , that this be by the through of Air Canada or of Air Scotia .
the Senator Cochrane :
this is exactly .
the Senator Boudreau :
that not 1 not to the information that I have here .
however , I will would this information to the Minister and him ask of the information more iterations to this regard .
the Senator Kinsella :
please whether also the situation in the North - is of the New - Brunswick .
the heritage
the possible of a behind in the construction of the new Museum of the War
the hon. Norman K . Atkins :
honourable senators , my question the is to the Leader of the government to the Senate and with the Museum Canadian of the War .
the hon. Barnie ' , chairman of the Museum of the War , former veteran , member of the Council private and former Minister of the Defence , has spent many of energy to of persuade the government of consider the possible of fund the construction of a new Museum of the War .
if you you Boteler to the development or to the home Vimy , who regorgent all two of activities , you find to what point they have need of a new development .
be has left hear that , - that would built to Rockcliffe , close of the Museum national of the required .
the government is he seriously the possible of support the institution of a new development or not fact - he that to a response lift to this question ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , the government is seriously the possible of to a such support .
of fact , the government the is committed to to to the clause of the development the ground of 20 Tuktoyuktuk located to Rockcliffe .
, the over of the evolution of the bill , of the funds additional must from of various sources , there including of the sector private .
the government continue of be part to this bill , and I to out of new that he the is committed to provide the location necessary .
the Senator Atkins :
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I not am not to the aware of someone decision that this be of to the bill in veilleuse .
I have provided to the honourable senators the more recent information which I has .
be is to determine of the sources of funding to the within of the government and a contribution Monetary of the sector private would clearly necessary .
I will me information , but I not know nothing of this that advance the Senator Atkins .
the Senator Atkins :
the Minister could can - be confirm this that I advance .
that of other about , Mr. ' is if contrarié that he is prepared to resign of the Museum Canadian of the War in reason of the Position agreed by the government .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I must say of new that I not have not of information to this about .
I will certainly on of the concerns of the hon. Senator to the Minister .
the funding of the new Museum of the War
the hon. Lowell Murray :
is - he true that the government not affectera of the funds to a new Museum of the War that if the sector private commitment of the funds ?
what could well be the excuse of a such policy ?
w ( 1440 )
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I believe understand that he there would a funding private , though the amount exactly not be not sure .
I believe understand that he there would also a call of funds private .
the Senator Murray :
the Minister must know that he there of other galleries national , by example the Museum of the civilization , the Museum of the Gallery - Arts of the Canada , and cetera .
the Minister knows - he of other case where the funding federal for the construction and the operating of such galleries has was " to condition that of the funds private be of first collected ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I know certainly of the case of funding Joint including of the funds of the government federal and of the sector private for the too of bills valid .
that he has was question of galleries national or not , I not cannot the say for the time .
the hon. Michael A . Meighen :
honourable senators , the Leader of the government to the Senate admet certainly that , in a case as , of the Museum Canadian of the War , he worth better that the government be the Leader of leadership .
the funding of the sector private must come by the on and not in Prime place .
the Leader of the government to the Senate with - he the things of this way or is - this the contrary ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
of other sources of funding government are to the study .
we hope that the bill will soon realized .
the Senator Meighen :
the Senator Boudreau :
however , he is in the interest of all the parties that the bill has of good opportunity of succeed .
Élections Canada
the Manitoba - Position loss of data negotiates
the hon. Mira Spivak :
honourable senators , that the Globe and Mail of today today , the life privacy de675 . thinks - be all the semiconductors of the province - has was Constitution to the months of January when a official of Élections Canada has lost a a enclosing of the information confidentiels .
he the was of the behalf of semiconductors , of their is , of their date of birth , of their marital and of their for of driver .
these information personal are useful to the businesses legitimate as to the activities criminal .
be we said that the a would presumably in a place of enfouissement and that Élections Canada would took of the measures for that situation incident not the occurring more .
he is clear also that a principle basic relatif to the protection of the information personal has was breached , to know the principle of the consent .
the data allow for a reason given not should never be used to a other end without the consent of the human concernée .
some thinks not have not had the opportunity of give their consent to the a or the other level of government .
I have two questions to for to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
of first , the government the excusera he of this unfortunate incident with of the public manitobaine ?
then , the government abandonnera he the attitude cavalière and adhérera he to the principle basic of the consent - as in this who with the information who him are releases by of other governments that in this who with those that he their is ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , the incident which about the Senator is really unfortunate and not of the all about .
the a who has was many wended of the information personal from of the Division of the semiconductors and of the for of driver of the Manitoba .
this a is came in the possession of Élections Canada , who has recognized that it has was deplore in a bac to PCB and that it not has not was recouvrée .
this a wended of the information as the behalf , the is , the date of birth , the marital and the number of for of driver and of plaque of ship of thinks .
Élections Canada has tenure the full responsibility of the loss and this is without hesitation that to the behalf of the government , I its my apologize to all the people affected .
all of on after the incident , Élections Canada in has informed the authorities provincial , who him had sent the a .
a inquiry has was implied on - the - report .
Élections Canada has then fact call to a Auditor of the outside for from in magazine his process of security , then ' in implement the changes reflected by the Auditor .
this incident is certainly regrettable , but he is to hope that he not the again not .
the transfer of the data personal - - principle of the consent
the hon. Mira Spivak :
honourable senators , I me am of this that the hon. Leader has presented of the apologize .
this with will of the more mobilized .
I know however if I have received a response complete in this who with the principle of the consent .
if the Leader not can not provide the response on - the - report , I him cannot and of me bring a response Senate on the policy of the government regarding this principle very basic .
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I not am not all to fact sure of well before the nature of the question supplementary .
the hon. Senator would - it of forward to new his concern ?
the Senator Spivak :
I believe that the data who are allow in a purpose not should not be used to a other end without the consent of the human interested .
he there has a enormous amount of information , as we the have learned , , who are sent to the government and to of other agencies .
and , of the businesses vendent of the cherished of clients without the consent of the it .
that at the allure of a problem in itself .
I believe understand that this incident is of nature accidentelle .
that not example not least the need of clarify this that I consider as a principle extremely important .
the Senator Boudreau :
I thank the hon. Senator of his implementation to the point .
I understand the argument .
I date of obtain a statement specific regarding this policy and I the him bring .
the Manitoba - Position loss of data negotiates - - procedures of security regarding the data personal
the hon. A . Raynell Andreychuk :
honourable senators , during of the review to the Senate of the Act election to the Canada , some of between we had of the reserves regarding these same provisions , to know , in what legislation the information personal would - they protected and the procedures with in place would - they or not adequate ?
the government of the Canada and Élections Canada we have amorphous that this such of things not could not the produce .
I am vehemence that the Leader and Élections Canada say now that Élections Canada is in are of to in place of the procedures for prevent that these incidents not the occur .
must - he in déduire that he not there had until to now no procedure or no system of control in place since the Adopted of the Act election ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I not like not that my hon. colleague in is a such conclusion .
however , of the recommendations have was made to that of the measures further be taken and colleague .
a number considerable of information are sent to Élections Canada and , fortunately , the such of incident which we about today today is rare .
in fact , the he has drew our attention , this is s because that that the product very rarely .
these provisions have was renforcées , Senate - in amorphous .
what that be the provisions taken , I not would not until to say that he not risk not in the future that the information be unwitting released .
be me assure however that these provisions are in seaway of be renforcées and that situation incident not is more is of the making .
the Senator Andreychuk :
honourable senators , by on of this very serious offence , not appropriate - he not of to in place a Committee of monitoring , or a group of we , who veillerait to this that that not the occurring more ?
these assurance we have already was data in the past , and he seems that the be has today today fact call to the Technology new for transfer these issues of manner rather entailed .
my confidence is ébranlée because , on the plan legislative , particularly in s of protection of the life privacy , we take virtually all that the system works and we have coopéré in this sense .
the time not is - he not help to a review independent for we ensure that the procedures ensured are indeed in place ?
w ( 1450 )
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , in the case who we ' , the Manitoba has was almost immediately alert and informed of the process took .
I hear also that the Commissioner to the protection of the life privacy has was constantly given to the aware , that he has of the support to the changes who have was through , and that he was to all the least satisfy that all the means reasonable be now ' in implement for we ensure that a incident similar not the again not .
the fisheries and the Oceans
the provinces Maritimes - Position decision of the Court Supreme confirmant the rights of fishing of the aboriginal - - funds for to the Purchase of for for the aboriginal
the hon. Gerald J . Comeau :
honourable senators , the 4 November , I have asked to the Minister the he could provide of the details on the proposal revert to to of side 500 million of $ for fund the Purchase of for for the fishermen aboriginal of the Canada Atlantic .
the Minister not has not could provide of details to this time - that .
as he the in will , my question the reported to the decision Marshall of the Court Supreme .
the Minister is - he today today in legislation of we provide of more forth information ?
the he not the is not , could - he the address to the Department will ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I not am not in legislation of provide to the hon. Senator more of information today today that the day where he has raised the question .
I will certainly me enquérir to this about with of the Minister of the Fisheries .
the Senator Comeau :
honourable senators , the Minister should know that he not the is not of a question without importance to the Canada Atlantic , particularly in Nova - Nova , after the federalist of the agreed an between the fishermen and the aboriginal .
this federalist will clearly a great impact on the future of the communities coastal and the Minister should to a more great importance to the situation .
it has of the impact in all the Canada , particularly in the region that knows very well the Minister .
he should exercise a some pressure for with the question .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I as that he the is of a question very important , who will be to the Prime plan of our concerns for a sure time .
he is vital that the Canadians understand that the solutions to this question very important must be of the solutions which involved and that funding , to the sense broad , all the Canadians and not not only the fishermen of the Nova - Nova and of the New - Brunswick .
answers delayed to of the questions Oral
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I have of the answers delayed to the questions Oral of the hon. Senator Kinsella , of the hon. Senator Rivest and of the hon. Senator Bolduc , raised to the Senate 16 November 99 , regarding the Service Canadian of the Intelligence of security , the loss of documents classifiés and the review of the Committee of monitoring of the activities of the Intelligence of security .
I have also a response to the question who has was raised to the Senate the 18 November 99 by the hon. Senator Spivak and who captured the Agreement of free - Exchange North - American and a any intentée by a society Processors in make of the loss of a contract of Purchase of water in vrac .
the Solicitor General
the Service Canadian of the Intelligence of security - Position loss of documents classifiés - - review of the Committee of monitoring of the activities of the Intelligence of security
( answers to the questions raised by the honorablesNoël A . Kinsella , Jean - Claude Rivest and Roch Bolducle 16 November 99 . )
( questions regarding the reviews and on the notification of the CSARS )
, as of chairman of the Committee of monitoring of the activities of Intelligence of security , Late Paule Gauthier has said , during of interviews of press recent , that or the Solicitor General or the steering of the SCRS not are held of the prevent of such incidents .
the SCRS slow now a inquiry of security Economy , and the Inspecteur General , who is of the Solicitor General , fact also inquiry .
the CSARS has by a review of his own initiative .
let the CSARS and the Inspecteur General to their work .
this are of the mechanisms of monitoring independent who have all the powers necessary for have access to the information of the SCRS , as the states a Act of the Parliament .
( questions on the comments of the Prime Minister )
the Prime Minister knows that three investigation are in over on this case , there including those that been the Committee of monitoring of the activities of Intelligence of security ( CSARS ) and the Inspecteur General for the SCRS .
the government is sure that these two mechanisms of surveillanceindépendants , which the existence is scheduled by a bill of Parliament , will unaccès total to the information of the SCRS and will well their work .
he is important of the let to their work .
( questions on the classify of the document and on the procedures of security )
because that he there has of the investigation and of the reviews in over , he would inappropriate of comment the nature exactly of the documents manquants or the procedures for the treatment of documents of this nature .
the steering of the SCRS has guaranteed that all the measures necessary are taken for ensure the required respect of the political determined in s of security .
still a time , he must let the CSARS and the Inspecteur General of the SCRS continue their reviews independent .
( questions on the steering of the SCRS )
the government has confidence in the capabilities of the Directeur and , a time still , I counsels to let the SCRS and that the mechanisms of monitoring of the outside that are the CSARS and the Inspecteur General continue their reviews .
the committees parliamentarians can invite all the witnesses that they our appropriate .
the trade international
the Agreement of free - Exchange North - American - - proceedings his by a society Processors in make of the loss of a contract of Purchase of water in vrac - Position Position of the government
( response to the question raised by the hon. Mira Spivak the 18 November 99 . )
the case of the MMT not has not created of precedent for the response of the government in any other case we of the chapter 11 of the NAFTA .
each case is considered are , that the well - based .
the group Special established to the words of the Agreement on the trade within ( ACI ) has presented the report before that the other hardship judicial not in come to this step .
the group has an that the legislation regarding the MMT to the level of the trade interprovincial was contrary to the objectives of the agreed .
for with the bill to the decision of the group Special of the ACI , the Canada has from the MMT of the list of the products chemical Canadian by the shut regarding the trade interprovincial and the importation .
that has also for to the Canada of with to the secrecy with Ethyl Corporation .
the case of the MMT in the framework of the NAFTA not is not feat over - beyond of the arguments their to the jurisdiction , and no sentence final not has was made .
the society Sun Belt WaterInc. ( Sun Belt ) , of California , has presented the year last a " Notification of the intention of put a phase to the arbitrage " , in Conformity with the provisions of the chapter 11 of the NAFTA regarding the regulation of the differences between a prohibited and a state .
by two time , and all recently in November 99 , Sun Belt has them to an the procedure of arbitrage in means a Notice of arbitrage to the Canada .
however , the two documents in question not failed not to the requirements procédurales of the chapter 11 of the NAFTA , and the Canada has , in make , informed Sun Belt that , to the notice , no procedure of arbitrage to the words duchapitre 11 not had was enclenchée .
our Position is that no procedure of arbitrage to the words of the chapter 11 not can begin before that Sun Belt not has presented a Notice of arbitrage valid .
in the documents made to this day , Sun Belt claims that the British - British has took , between 1989 and now , various " measures " contrary to the provisions of the chapter 11 of the NAFTA , there including the Building , in 1989 , of for of export of water in vrac , and the conduct of the prosecutor General to the regard of the action in justice to be of January 1993 . - allegations of offences took by the Canada to the regard of the NAFTA is the sections 1102 ( Traitement national ) , 1105 ( Norme of treatment minimum ) and 1110 ( Expropriation and compensation ) .
the Antarctic and the regulation adopted in 1991 by the British - British prevented the exports of water in vrac are filed under the with that they are contrary to the right international , but no as direct not is made to of the offences to the provisions of the NAFTA .
the Canada to constantly increase the transparency in the procedures provisions to the regulation of the differences between a prohibited and a state .
in the legislation of the possible , he encourage the openness in these procedures and ask to the requérant of to of even .
the Canada is determined to one drew the phase introduced against him by the Sun Belt to the words of the chapter 11 of the NAFTA , if this phase is Before to the arbitrage that the rules .
in the case DESONA , a court set in under of the chapter 11 of the NAFTA has recently record a judgment fully to the advantage of the Mexico , in concluant that , - this not had , in the here , legalistic no of his obligations to the words of this chapter .
this is the first time that a court set in under of the chapter 11 of the NAFTA for hear a case involving a prohibited and a state makes a sentence final .
in his findings , the court has set of the limits clear as to the difference of the obligations duchapitre 11 regarding the Investment who had was raised in this case .
the sentence is that these obligations not are not extensibles , and that their scope is limited .
the ORDRE DAY THE
the speech of the Throne
motion of is in response - Continued of the debate
the order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Jeffrey , seconded by the hon. Senator Furey , Honourable to the Adopted of a Adresse to His Excellency the Gouverneure general in response to the speech that her has by during of the openness of the second session of the 30 - sixth Parliament . - (
5e day of the resuming of the debate ) .
the hon. Douglas Roche :
honourable senators , he there a80 years about , in the turn of the Paix , this magnificent symbol of the peace who authority a comforting world to the Parliament of the Canada , be has recorded the words following , got of the Proverbes : " Faute of vision , the people in without preferment ; happy who be the bill . "
, the time where we we préparons to enter in a new century and a new millennium , we should reflect intensément to this proverbe of the Saintes Écritures .
what is our vision ?
that envisageons - we for the Canada : a country of abondance , fact of great espaces , of industries and of resources , of progress technological and of great energies human ?
how envisageons - we the Canada by report to the rest of the world , in this period crucial of the history of the world , where the human have the power of to the security to the humanity , on the planet of God ?
the arrived of a new century ask of centrer our attention not only on we - same in our country original , but also on the village overall record possible by the prodiges of the Technology .
when we regardons the world in the together , we should be surprised and shame of see the great suffering tolérées by the systems political of the world .
the 20 century has was the more sanglant of the history of the humanity , then that more of 110 million of people have was driving for of the war , this who represents three time more that all the Late account to the War since the all Prime century after Jesus - Christ .
for that of the war are which and breakfast and of major amount of resources , the more those of our world see their situation the eroded still more .
sixty country the getting regularly since 1980 .
the services of housing , of health and of education are occupation is in the world around .
w ( 1500 )
even if we , to the Canada , are incredibly this in service of the standards international , this not is not a reason for be Commission or murmur of we .
, the over of the 10 past years , the number of poor to the Canada is past of 3,7 million of people to more of 5 million , this who represents 18 per of the public .
more of 1.5 million of children , a child on five therefore , live in the poverty .
the problem of the without - from has was qualified of disaster national by the mayors of the 10 more major cities of the country .
in all the Canada , the governments consistently in the funding for to the programs social , to the health and to the education .
the governments réduisent their deficits to the backs of the poor .
in the years 90 , the appropriation spent to the Program of assistance public to the development of the Canada have was reduced de37p. per , and yet , to the hour current , our Estimates military not are pushed that of 19p. per to our Estimates during the being years of the War Cold .
the Canada has dépensé690 million of $ for participate to the War of the Gulf et18 million of $ for the bombs larguées on the Kosovo and the Serbie to the spring last .
, the Canada as to the abroad , we do opposite to of the disparités choquantes and to of bad priorities .
in a world of abondance , the justice social seems more fix that never .
we missions to of the war who not should not have place .
the major whereby have of the weapons nuclear who it constantly in danger the humanity .
the governments of the planet funding a militarisme excessive to the backs of the poor .
short , the priorities of the government in s of Estimates military are follement " by report to those who with the Estimates aside to the development economic and social to a time where the lack of development is now recognized as the the more great threat that can know on the plan of the security the States the least développés .
this is a situation of two negative , two measures to the risen are in the framework of which the governments would of a side that they are unable of fund the needs social in reason of the deficits and archivists of the other of the are great to the War and to his Deputy .
the year even who has followed the summit of the child in 1990 , who the is they by of the speech and little of money , the government has suddenly found 60 billion of $ for participate to the War of the Gulf .
the industry of the weapons is if puissante and the influence is if envahissante that the - this affecte almost all the aspects of the society Western .
the country Nations paying double 483 billion of $ to the Defence , but only 48 billion of $ to the assistance public to the development , who is supposed answer to the needs of security human of the regions the more déstabilisées in the world .
even this small amount of assistance is has in question , but the appropriation military franchissent the process government without be filed .
the reality , this is that a development economic sustainable could to let good number of the discouraging pre to the War .
this is that the lesson that we should from desannées 90 .
he can come that the employment of the force be legitimate in the - of the peace ; however , if the be not redonne not to the Council of security the role prééminent as only source of legitimacy regarding the use to the force , the Alexander short quick to the anarchie .
be not can let the NATO determine it - even to what time he there will use to the force ; yet , to the opportunity of the summit grand the fiftieth anniversary of the NATO , who the is own little after the beginning of the bombing to the Kosovo , the meeting have took deliberately the decision of the wants the role of arbitre responsible of decide of the time timely of use the force .
the gloatingly excessive of the NATO heritage now the inequality and the confidence .
the Russes and the Chinese not are never a Alexander dominé by the NATO .
already , the consequences of the War of the Kosovo have beyond of far the cost human .
the hopes that the be was for a system of security World the are fracassés against the écueils of the power .
the confidence suscitée by this that be was be the end of the War Cold is today today having .
a new , to the armements nuclear is to fear if Washington , Moscow and Beijing not are not to work of new .
the world the heads all right to the gulf nuclear , that hysterical by the India and the Pakistan .
the danger that this the weapons nuclear will grew .
this over should get the people of good will to the within of the government and of the society civil to act .
the Canada not can more the from of a action décisive in the abstenant of vote to the Nations Nations , as during of the resolution introduced this year in the framework of the new program and Requesting to the whereby nuclear of the Services without was to enter of the negotiations Work to the Elimination of the weapons nuclear .
that he the whether of the weapons nuclear or of the War of the Kosovo , this who is in because , this is the rule of the right .
how the right international will he imposed in the years to come ?
the will he by a Oath military who wants of this that should be the right or by a effort collective world who implementation on the respect of the rule of the right in the framework of the Nations Nations ?
is the question fundamental who the with to the Canada to the enter of the new millennium .
honourable senators , even if the picture that I just of tracer is sadness , this is with hope that I like to opposite to the new millennium .
my hope ahead in the better understanding that we have in as that community human of a world interrelié in each an of activity .
despite the war , the hunger , the number of without - from and the diseases who touch of the million of people human , the world advance however to a new manner of lead the Affairs international , who require a more great participation of all and who is more new on the people .
this movement can create the conditions supportive to a culture of the peace .
be said often that the War is inexorable , that it fact part of the nature human and that the human the battent since always .
this analysis is lift .
the people human not are not génétiquement programmés for to the War .
he not there has no part they inherent to our nature who product the violence .
the UNESCO fact out that the War starts in the head ; of even , he we must to enter in our spirit the new concept that which the peace is absolutely necessary in a era technologique of destruction mass .
for as the pessimisme present , he must recognize that the War not is not inexorable .
the violence such that be the has view in Iraq , in Bosnia , to the catalogued , in Somalia , to the Kosovo and , not émerge not inexorably of the interaction human .
as the haine and the incitation to the violence panic by the inégalités Social and economic , and 7.54 to a supply easy in weapons Mudslide , are if evident , he is essential and pressing of discover how prevent that of the differences not into in conflict overwhelmingly violent .
the real problem here not is not that we know all of the violence tender and of dispute , but rather that we know how act .
be that we not justified no attention to the tueries who the produced in the regions who not are not to the centre of our interests , or then , as in the situation to the Kosovo , we déchaînons a include of destruction under with of save the humanity .
the examples of the points chauds in the world indicate that the potential of violence can be was by the application hâtive , habile and intégrée of measures political , diplomatic , economic and military .
even if of were suffering are Finland , be not can deny that the parties in War have falling the weapons to the Salvador , in Namibia , to the Mozambique , in Africa of the South , to the Guatemala and to the Philippines .
the agreements of peace in Ireland of the North and to the Middle - East , even the they are précaires , testimony that the desire of peace of the man can come to across of the stories of conflict .
since 1945 , the UN has been 172 regulations diplomatic who have ' a term to of the conflict regional , there including the end of the War between the Iran and the Iraq and the withdrawal of the troops vividly in Afghanistan .
the War and the violence are generally the make of decisions political délibérées .
rather that of expect that of the conflict have known for speak and of be then to betterment the peace , he is more human and more effective of prevent the violence in the attaquant to his causes first .
this is the sculptured of a approach for a culture of the peace .
the efforts respectable of the UNESCO in view of promote a culture of the peace are inspirants .
in response to a ask who him had was material by the Assembly general of the Nations Nations to that it tender the idea of a culture of the peace as approach in view of prevent the violence and the conflict armed , the UNESCO has defined the standards , the values and the objectives to to promote a culture of the peace .
w ( 1510 )
a spirit of peace , this is a together of values , of attitudes , of traditions , of behaviours and of which of life who reflect and analysis the respect of the life and of the rights of the human .
this is reject the violence under all his forms and this is the Services to prevent the conflict violent in the attaquant to their causes first by the seaway of the dialogue and of the negotiating .
be not acquiert not a spirit of peace of the day to the next .
, the place of planned the way of delivering the War , the Canada should support of all the negative the efforts of the Secretary General of the Nations Nations , Kofi Annan , who has has recently in these words the need of promote a culture of the peace :
he seems sometimes that the culture of the peace not has no opportunity before the culture of the War , the culture of the violence , and the culture of the impunité and of the intolerance .
the peace represents can - be a challenge of size ; it is can - be also linked of the actions conduites in of many areas and without doubt , to the opportunity , of a small the of inch of the opportunity .
the process can the be to the time long and painful , to the time fragile and imparfait a time realized .
honourable senators , these ideas have was expressed with effect to the conference in favour of the peace hosted to Position Hague in May last ; this event of four days has réuni7 . people of per nationalités different attack attend to of the séminaires and of the exams , see of the expositions and participate to a myriad of activities in favour of the peace .
for the defray of a culture of the peace , the Canada must develop of the political who exceptions the security of the human , the implementation in place of new coalitions and the any of new talks , who respect the rule of the right , who privilégient the initiatives of peace , the taken of decisions democratic , and the interventions humanitarian catch by the Council of security .
he is finally of amend the political in effect in under which of the billion of $ are spent to the armament and to the militarisation , then that , fault of financements , are sacrifiées of laudable initiatives in favour of the development and of the actions all also laudable in favour of the peace and of the security .
honourable senators , the culture of the peace is a objective practical , certainly , but he is also incontournable .
in the absence of a culture of the peace , of the million and of the million of human into of périr .
the Canada can - he work in favour of the rule of the Nations Nations in s of resolution of the conflict ?
I think that we the can and that this is even our duty of the to .
the Canada can - he the associate with of the States to the views similar for convince the country will of a ability nuclear of the Services in of the negotiations to to eliminate this armament ?
I think that we the can and that this is even our duty of the to .
the mandate Prime of the Nations Nations - save to the generations to come the affres of the War - should may a of the concerns fundamental of the government of the Canada .
the perspective of a culture of the peace can we give a effect creating in this next millennium .
the hon. Jerahmiel S . Grafstein :
honourable senators , the Senator Roche would - he of answer to a question ?
the Senator Roche :
certainly .
the Senator Grafstein :
the Senator Roche and I have already discussed of this question .
however , I like always hear this that he has to say , particularly in this who with the role of the Nations Nations .
the Secretary General has recently blamed the Nations Nations for their failure to Srebrenica .
of other observers have said the even something , be that the Nations Nations had misses to the task seen the events s to Srebrenica .
I you the remind briefly : the Nations Nations have established to Srebrenica a found where the people were be in security , but of innocence victims the enfuyant for the réfugier under the flag white of the Nations Nations there have was massacrées .
the Secretary General Kofi Annan has said that this failure was output to the Nations Nations .
how réconcilier the opinion of the hon. Senator , who with the Nations Nations as a body overall , protector and pacificateur , with the reality of this body who , put before the difficulty , the is dépossédé , impuissant and without use ?
the Hon. the Speaker good tempore :
hon. Senator Roche , I regret of duty you interrupt , but I must you remind that the time who you was would is has .
are - you the leave of continue ?
the Senator Roche :
yes , I ask the leave of continue .
the Hon. the Speaker good tempore :
is - this of agreed , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed
the Senator Roche :
I you thank , honourable senators .
the Senator Grafstein has criticized reducing the Nations Nations .
I hope that he not me in want not of say that the description not was not complete .
I not have never said that the Nations Nations were a institution perfect , not more that I hustings the government of the Canada of institution perfect .
however , he is certainly of support of the political who is to establish of the conditions propices to the peace , and this is exactly this that understanding of to the Nations Nations .
I donnerai a only example .
the government of the Canada has seconded the training of a force police permanent who would mobilisée in case of conflict for save of the lives .
, because of the Opposition of the major whereby , the Nations Nations not have not still agreed or ' in implement a such force police .
, the there of the next century , we should restore the rule of the Nations Nations and not not to to of the associations regional , even if this are of important associations as the NATO , of the replace to the authority of the Nations Nations to as of Main officer legal of peace and of security in the world .
is what should be our point of mire .
( on the motion of the Senator Atkins , the debate is adjourned . )
privileges , Rules and procedure
Adopted of the second report of the Committee
the Senate on to the study of the second report of the Committee Standing of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure ( Church morave of America ) , presented to the Senate 24 November 99 . - ( - hon. Senator Austin , P ) .
the hon. Jack Austin :
honourable senators , I move the Adopted of the report .
the Hon. the Speaker good tempore :
pleasure - he to the honourable senators of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed , and the report is adopted . )
third report of the Committee - Stands of the debate
the order of the day Order :
Report of the third report of the Committee Standing of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure ( question of privilege of the Senator Kinsella ) , tabled to the Senate 24 November 99 . - ( - hon. Senator Austin , P ) .
the hon. Jack Austin :
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate , I like give a brief explanation and not propose the Adopted of the report to this point - this .
the Hon. the Speaker good tempore :
the leave is - it granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator Austin :
honourable senators , I have of the concerns as to the Availability of evidence corroborantes and adequate regarding the question .
this last can however be resolved if the witnesses are loans to testify in Senate public rather that to camera closed .
I recueille of the notice to this regard and , rather that of to a discussion to to determine when be must approach to the sittings to camera closed , I would that the section to the study be order to tomorrow .
w ( rald )
the hon. ë A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I like that in struck of other information , the chairman of the Committee é that of the fact that good number of between we are of notice that in rule general , all the deliberations of the Parliament of the Canada should be public .
we recognize that he there has , of time to other , some questions who must be treated to camera closed .
the study by a Committee of a array of report in is a example .
by therefore , I urge the Committee to driver his deliberations publicly and not not to camera closed .
in the legislation where this question of privilege particular is the circumstances on the Adopted of means of pressure to the work , I wish to remind to the chairman and to the members of the Committee who could have of the doubts to this about that , in under of the right of the work , the questions of arbitrage not are not debatable to camera closed , but publicly .
finally , in the legislation where this is I who have raised the question of privilege and where the Committee to that I at to his business , I must say that I would well of the difficulty to appear to camera closed before the Committee .
this is a principle on which I me based for operate .
I urge the Committee to take all these aspects in consideration .
the Senator Austin :
honourable senators , I acknowledge the would of the principles that the Senator Kinsella just of mention .
I think that this is to the chairman of the Committee that he responsibility of shown to the Senate why he would timely of to a Senate to camera closed .
these reasons can the apply or not in the here .
( the Senate the adjourned to the Wednesday 1 December 99 , to 13 p.m. 30 . )
debates of the Senate ( Hansard )
wondering Session , Session st ,
volume 6,401 , Issue 14
the Wednesday 1 er December 99
the hon. Rose - Marie Cool - Losier , Speaker good tempore
table of the Contents
' ' '
the Day World of the AIDS
the Francophonie
the inspecteur Robert Upshaw of the RCMP
tributes to the opportunity of his promotion
Affairs routine
section Canadian of the Church morave of America
bill of bill of interest private amend the Act establish in human moral - Presented of a petition
the Estimates of the Estimates of 99 - 2000
notice of motion Motion the Committee of the Finance national to study the Estimates of the Estimates
Finance national
notice of motion Motion the Committee to to the Electronic of his deliberations by of the means electronic
notice of motion Motion the Committee to Services of the staff
PERIOD PERIOD question
the Affairs foreign
the dépassement of the Estimates of would for for some celebrating of the Canada
the development of the resources human
the level doing of the provision of the pension of the insurance - employment
the Council of the Board
the report of the Auditor General - - licensing of markets to a provider unique - - institution of a mechanism of review required of the markets
the Finance
the report of the Auditor General - - problems from to a under - estimate of the surplus budget
the Defence national
the report of the Auditor General - Position implementation in implement of the Program of Ethics of the Defence
the heritage
the behind in the construction of the new Museum of the War - Position protection of the trésors national
the new Museum of the War - Position nature of the funding private
the business of the Senate
response Senate to a question orale
the justice
the possible of protect more the people against the violence
order DAY THE
the Act of implementation in implement of the Agreement on the Station spatiale international civil
second Reading
referred to the Committee
the Act on the Assent Royal
second Reading - Motion of amendment - Order to the rêglement - Adjourned of the debate in the Awaiting of the decision of the Speaker
motion of amendment
use to the Rules
Affairs legal and Constitutional
Authorized to the Committee of sit in even time that the Senate
Banking and trade
Authorized to the Committee of sit in even time that the Senate
Energy , environment and resources natural
motion to to Authorize the Committee to to the Act Canadian on the protection of the environment - Adjourned of the debate
the business of the Senate
use to the Rules
Energy , environment and resources natural
Authorized to the Committee of study of the questions related to the mandate
Authorized to the Committee of Services of the staff and of the adjourn - Adjourned of the debate
Authorized to the Committee of to the Electronic of his deliberations by the media electronic
the SENATE
the Wednesday 1 December 99
the Senate is met to 13 p.m. 30 , the Speaker good tempore the to the Chair .
prayers .
the Day World of the AIDS
the hon. Erminie J . Cohen :
honourable senators , I rise the speak today today for out the Day World of the AIDS .
, the least 109 country recognize this day , which draw the attention on a illness who affecte of the people in the world around .
the Day World of the AIDS is to awareness more the world to this terrible illness and to was of the funds additional in view of there to end .
he there has already great lurette that the AIDS not is more assimilé to a illness of their .
this illness contagieuse mortelle the attack to all the walks Social , without to that of the race , of the marital or of the situation social or economic .
ONUSIDA , the body of the Nations Nations responsible of study the illness and of retarded the spread of the virus , has recently released a report reaps the terrible threat that this outbreak fact weigh on the world around .
someone 5,6 million of people will infected this year only , this who ups to 33,6 million the number of people human suffering of this illness .
the impact to increased of 10 per by report to the year last , the AIDS continues of the répandre as a gun of brousse .
the spread of the HIV properly to the use of drugs injectables is become a problem pressing .
he is great time that the Canada this a approach in this who with the health public , as the have fact already the Britain - Britain , the Netherlands - Lower , the Australia and the Switzerland , who overwhelmingly to the toxicomanes the access to various models of treatment , without the limit to the promotion of the forbearance , but all in rolls the assistance financial remitted to the centres of treatment .
the twelfth Day World Annual of the AIDS the is to the young of the world around .
the theme of this year is " - children and the young :
Écouter , learn , live " .
this is all to fact timely the of that , that the report of the UN , the most of the victims of the AIDS contractent the virus before of have reached the age of 25 years and long before of celebrate their 30 - fifth anniversary .
be believes that the information with of the young is the approach the more facility who be for reduce the spread of the virus of the HIV .
today today , 20 years after that the first outbreak has struck , ONUSIDA believe that the worse rest to come to least of a developing of the efforts in view of eradicating this illness .
, the enter of the new millennium , we must focus our efforts on the education , the prevention , the improvement of the care of health and finally , hope - the , the treatment .
for come to to a term to this terrible outbreak , we must start a call to the leaders of the country of the world around to that they conjuguent their efforts .
this not is that in working together that we can hope come to across of this illness .
the Francophonie
the hon. Jean - Robert Gauthier :
honourable senators , the Francophonie the is order clear for the protection of the diversity cultural .
réunie to Paris the 30 November 99 , the Conference government French , Pritchard by the hon. Ronald Duhamel , Secretary of state Canadian to the Francophonie , has réaffirmé the principle already statement during of the Summit of Moncton , to know that :
the property Cultural not must in no way be réductibles to their only dimension economic and Shipping and that the States and governments have the right of establish freely their policy cultural .
the Secretary General of the Organization international of the community , Mr. Boutros Boutros - summit , has said of the side that the country francophones not could not accept of the " rules who could fall the identités national " .
the Francophonie international is of as more there to the principle basic of the diversity cultural and to the plurilinguisme that they are his basic philosophique and his reason of be .
as you the know , honourable senators , in the report on the policy foreign of the Canada entitled : " Principes and priorities for the future " , tabled he there has five years already , the Committee of the House and of the Senate had , to this time , clear established , to the chapter 6 of this report , and I quote :
the Committee recognizes strongly that the policy foreign of the Canada with the Affairs cultural , scientific and éducationnelles must to part integral of a policy national , RFP of our with the provinces .
each country has a identity cultural who him is own , and this unicité deserves a treatment particular .
the Canada must reaffirm his Position to of nouer of the alliances for to recognize the need of protect and of promote the crops national .
... more later ...
the inspecteur Robert Upshaw of the RCMP
tributes to the opportunity of his promotion
leave to was granted of to to the statements of senators :
the hon. Calvin Woodrow Ruck :
he seems that this be the Prime Noir to to a rank also high in the RCMP .
we are extremely proud of our brother Robert Upshaw and we him wish the better of the opportunity in the any of the work , because he ) a influence on the young who their to of such roles who consistent to serve the tradition hon. of the Mounted Royal of the Canada .
Affairs routine
section Canadian of the Church morave of America
bill of bill of interest private amend the Act establish in human moral - Presented of a petition
the hon. Nicholas W . Taylor :
the Estimates of the Estimates of 99 - 2000
notice of motion Motion the Committee of the Finance national to study the Estimates of the Estimates
the hon. Lowell Murray :
honourable senators , I give notice that Thursday next , the 2 December 99 , I move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Finance national be authorized to study , to of in to report , the Estimates expenditures in the Estimates of the Estimates for the year financial the ending the 31 March 2000 ; and
that the Committee its the report to the more later 31 March 2000 .
Finance national
notice of motion Motion the Committee to to the Electronic of his deliberations by of the means electronic
the hon. Lowell Murray :
honourable senators , I give notice that Thursday next , the 2 December 99 , I move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Finance national be authorized to to the with of his deliberations public by the media of information electronic , in disruption the least possible his business .
notice of motion Motion the Committee to Services of the staff
the hon. Lowell Murray :
honourable senators , I give notice that Thursday next , the 2 December 99 , I move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Finance national be authorized to clerical the services of counsel legal , of staff technical , of employees of office and of other people to the need , for help the Committee to to the bills of bill , the substance of these the and the forecasts who him have was referred .
PERIOD PERIOD question
the Affairs foreign
the dépassement of the Estimates of would for for some celebrating of the Canada
the hon. Terry Stratton :
honourable senators , my question the is to the Leader of the government to the Senate and with the question that I have raised the week last to the about of the Department of the Affairs foreign , who would beyond exceeded per the appropriation original some in the budget Main of the Estimates .
the forecasts the are high now à130 million of $ for the business of construction , dont70 million for the construction of our Embassy in Germany in reason of the transfer of the capital allemande of Bonn to Berlin .
the Senator Lynch - Lynch :
this is shame !
the Senator Stratton :
these questions have was raised before the Committee of the Finance to the time where he the looked on the Estimates Supplementary of the Estimates .
I have asked to the relates - speak of the Council of the Board of justify this dépassement of 50 per of the costs and of me give of the figures iterations .
they have promised of obtain the information and the Leader of the government to the Senate has fact of even .
I must recognize that the Senator Hays has always answered enough quickly to our questions .
I poured that he can be on a work more important , because the Senator Carstairs there put more long .
a Senators :
he just of the Alberta .
the Senator Stratton :
a Albertan would - he more effective that a Manitobain ?
I not the believe not !
two questions have was raised , the a to the meeting of the Committee of the Finance and the other to the Senate , the week last .
they are relatively simple .
I have last by find the response to according 5 of the daily The Ottawa Citizen of this morning .
the Leader of the government to the Senate should can - be me ask the answers to these questions .
I could him say that to Seoul , in Korea , he there has a dépassement of 22 million of $ .
of more , this dépassement could have has the cancellation of the bill .
the Department has bought a ground for 15 million of $ he there has five years .
this ground is vacant .
if be using the method of calculating of the interests on the cost of abdication ages million of $ on five years , be getting a cost of abdication of 8 million of $ on these 15 million of $ .
he there has then the residence to New Delhi , in India , who has cost 200 . $ of more that provided .
the Senator Di Nino :
that represents many of money in India .
the Senator Stratton :
that is - this who the on to the Department of the Affairs foreign for that he not can not control the costs ?
I can understand that be know all of the body of loosely in the sector local of the bâtiment in a country of , but that not has nothing of new to the Department of the Affairs foreign .
he fact this such of something since of the years .
he can certainly have a better control on the costs that to the hour current , where the costs dépassent exceeded per the estimates robust .
this is all to fact absurd that we are a bill to Seoul with a dépassement of 22 million of $ and that be the denies of so that the ground rest vacant .
the Leader of the government want can - be answer .
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I thank the hon. Senator of his comments .
the Senator homme man :
répondez to the speech , I you please .
the Senator Boudreau :
in a some legislation , I sharing the frustration of the Senator to the regard of the fact that the Leader Deputy of the government not has not answered more quickly to this question in particular .
however , I acknowledge also that in General , he does quickly and I the in thank .
in this who with the problems precise that the hon. Senator raises , he is obvious that we are of obtain the more possible for our money in the case of all the bills of construction , in we fiant on the resources local of the country .
, in judge by the information that the hon. Senator has admit with we , these resources local have was someone little imprévisibles during the enforcement of these bills .
I date of obtain of the information more precise for answer to the concerns of the Senator .
the Senator has mentioned the case precise of the ground left vacant .
be not can that hope that this ground include has triplé of value since , this who we would of not not order of cost of abdication and can - be even of throughout a be .
the Senator Stratton :
I believe that the Senate and the Canadians deserve of best explanation .
these dépassements of cost are bashful .
how réglerez - you this problem ?
how empêcherez - you that that the occurring to the future ?
the Senator Boudreau :
the Senator has raised a point important .
I have said that I forward to the Senator the réassurance of the Minister that he there would a review of these problems and that , he must the hope , of the measures would taken to of avoid that that the occurring .
the development of the resources human
the level doing of the provision of the pension of the insurance - employment
the hon. Donald H . Oliver :
honourable senators , imitant in that the Senator Stratton , I like I also add a preamble to my question .
in the report of the 19 November 99 , the Auditor General about of the surplus of the pension of the insurance - employment .
the rate of premium to the insurance - employment are through by the Board of insurance - employment , who so of the representatives of the employees , of the employers and of the government , and they must be approved by the cabinet , on the recommendation of the Minister of the Finance and of the Minister of the Development of the resources human .
these rate should to of cover the costs of the program all in by relatively stable regardless of the graduate economic .
he is normal that the be prévoie a level doing of the provision , but the bill not give no precision on this who is a level doing .
in a letter sent to the Minister of the Development of the resources human in July last , the Auditor General has has that the surplus of the pension of the insurance - employment today now the level of the 10 to 15 billion of $ that the actuary of the pension Justice sufficient for satisfy to the requirements of the bill .
the Auditor General has said this to the Minister , the of that the surplus dépassait the level felt sufficient by the actuary :
that given of the of present of the surplus , he there has place of book and of make the factors screening to determine the level doing of the provision .
in the response that he give to the Auditor General , the government the summer simply of make the process screening to establish the rate and not give not on to the suggestion specific him enjoignant of book the factors screening to determine the level doing of the provision .
honourable senators , to the end of March , the surplus of the pension of the insurance - employment will higher to 26 billion of $ .
, a time of to the over of the next year financial , he forecast the 30 billion of $ .
the case if , what is this amount and how is - he established ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , as you the know , he there has a very generous surplus in the pension of the insurance - employment .
, about , the generous surplus is the result of a healthy economy , of a economy as the that we know in the time .
a of the consequences of a economy blossoming , this is that the needs are must answer the regime of insurance - employment are least sacrificed that they not the would in of other circumstances , and we we réjouissons all of this situation .
by on of this growth , the premiums of insurance - employment have was reduced of way would to the over of the past years .
I not have not the figures in with , but I can easily the obtain and you the bring and I am sure that the hon. Senator knows that he there has had a reduction phased .
some would that this reduction phased not is not indeed enough quickly or that it would should the continue .
the Board of the insurance - employment , who establishes the rate , has adopted a point of view someone little different .
, my notice , it the is prudent .
however , we should recognize that the government and the economy have the deserves of we have ' in presence of this interesting challenge .
the Senator Oliver :
can - be the hon. Minister has he devancé the Minister of the Finance and we has he of of the forecasts economic ?
however , my question was specifically on the provision of the pension .
if it the one now to 26 billion of $ and that it what to the over of the next year financial à30 billion of $ , when the amount will he enough high ?
what would that the Minister a provision get ?
when the employers can - they the expect to benefit of a relief ?
the Senator Di Nino :
a allègement real ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , the employers can the expect to of the allègements terms , as to the over of the past years .
, the as and to legislation that the programs have of the results will , of the allègements have was accorded by the government federal .
, how must the rise the provision ?
I not can give a response exactly to the question of the Senator .
that depends of the of of the economy to a time precise .
of other factors can enter in line of that .
what that he in be , he worth better pécher by excesses of prudence .
I not can give of opinion personal on the levels done of the provision .
I believe not not me wrong in saying that if the surplus continues to increase , he the could very well the government is of other cuts .
the Council of the Board
the report of the Auditor General - - licensing of markets to a provider unique - - institution of a mechanism of review required of the markets
the hon. Marjory LeBreton :
honourable senators , in the report of November 99 , more specifically chapter 30 entitled : " - markets of services professionals conclude with a provider unique " , the Auditor General the is focused on the practice agreed by the government of wants of the markets of services professionals to a provider unique .
that this practice , the government crunch of the contracts without approach to the competition , and this to the profit of a provider unique .
the Auditor General the is also focused on a mechanism called the " notice of action of contract " , or PAC .
honourable senators , the contracts are supposed be made by seaway competitive , however be on addition to the rules for choose a provider of .
as the quoted the Auditor General :
... the most of the markets that we have audited this year not résisteraient not to the review public .
the figures are " .
that the Auditor General , close of 90 per of the markets to fact the subject of a audit have was accorded in despite of the regulations .
honourable senators , the contracts of 25 . $ and more regarding of the markets to provider unique are approximativement 1,34 billion of $ of the Estimates of the government .
however the services provided not are absolutely not age .
of more , the amount of work proposed by the provider is rarely took of manner criticism , and the rules regarding the harmful of the PAC not are not properly observed .
in addition , only a small number of these markets destiny to the rules highlight the use to a provider unique .
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , we our all that , in the circumstances considered , the licensing of a contract to a provider unique not is not the better way of proceed .
however , he can there have of the circumstances - and the hon. Senator the knows surely - where this is appropriate .
in this case - this , the Auditor General has of the opinion on some contracts .
, the term of a review enough detailed of these contracts , he has felt that the lines guidelines not were not always observed .
I am course that the Minister in question will good reaction to the comments urgently of the Auditor General , and I projection that he in will that and Glenney in make .
the Senator LeBreton :
honourable senators , when he is question of 1.3 billion of $ or of 90 per , be can to speak of " approximativement " .
this word has therefore a new means .
honourable senators , still a time , the Auditor General has said :
Élargir the report of the reservations or not not in to that represents a decision Charges , of the on of some officials , of amend the balance of the values that the government has established for orienter the conduct of his Affairs .
I me would of remind , honourable senators , that , even if in the book Red of 1993 the Liberal had promised of reduce the Estimates with to the services professionals and special , the government has increased substantially the use to the under - traitance .
in fact , to the over of the by This Hour Has22 Minutes of the week last , be has said that the book Red would should win the National of the Governor General of the category of the his of imagination .
trying he of preserve the power and the influence with of those who benefit of the contracts to provider unique ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , in this who with the book Red , the government will felt by the Canadians in time timely .
the Senator Lynch - Lynch :
you there be .
the Senator Boudreau :
he the can that I there am .
the Senator Lynch - Lynch :
not , you there be and , hon. Senator , you souhaiterez be here .
we will that we also .
the Senator Graham :
there be - you ?
the Senator Lynch - Lynch :
I there be .
Halifax - Centre .
the Senator Boudreau :
we have more of candidates , if I understand well .
this is a example that I not am not sure of recommend .
for in to to the question , I believe that the Canadians jugeront the government on his performances general had regard to the book Red .
I not think not that he there someone excuse that this be to the government for to of the contracts who not would not in the interest of the Canadians .
the Minister will clearly take to the seriously the comments of the Auditor General .
the Senator LeBreton :
if the contracts are accorded in the interest of the public , he not there has no reason for that we not find nothing know to their about .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , the hon. Senator has expressed clear his concerns .
all the governments recognize that , in some case , of the contracts must be accorded other that by the system of while normal .
the Finance
the report of the Auditor General - - problems from to a under - estimate of the surplus budget
the hon. Roch Bolduc :
honourable senators , my question the is to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
the Auditor General has has a deficiency in the policy of the government , who sphere to to of the assumptions too prudentes by report to the growth economic and to the rate of interest .
he unless that this method was useful to the time of the deficits because it Urban to the markets financial that all was under control , but that , in period of surpluses , it brings the government to spending more to the end of the year financial .
that the Auditor General , since , if the be fact of the forecasts prudentes , the surplus real will probably higher to the surplus provided :
, the time where that becomes obvious , to the end of the year , he is generally too later for influer on the results in reducing the taxes and the taxes , this who fact that the increase of the Estimates becomes the way the more effective of eliminate a surplus " excessive " .
each of the two the Budgets contained of new Estimates important who have was imputées to the year where the budget has was tabled .
honourable senators , the Auditor General said then that " that from very little of the Estimates of end of year with by the departments who nor of funds exceed , except that he the is not more of million , but of billion of $ who from of the spend of the taxpayers " .
not is - he not time that the government révise this practice who is to Services of the Estimates challenges in end of year simply for amend the importance of the surplus or of the deficit said ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I have read some of the comments that the Senator refers .
the Auditor General the concern of the fact that the government under - believe the surplus for a reason or a other .
be can him give all the reasons that the be to .
in something these remarks , I me amazed of see to what point the time have changed .
I me recall very well of the time where the Auditor General critiquait the government year after year because that he had surestimé the revenues , amplifié exagérément the data , seriously under - esteemed the deficits and , by therefore , was the people essentially .
this is this that were some levels of governments , and this was a practice dangerous .
of the point of view of the accounting or of the management , this is can - be a mistake that of be too prudent when be for the surpluses .
in this case , this is a mistake who is of far better to the other so , that be has seen for if long in this country .
the Senator Bolduc :
honourable senators , the Leader of the government using the even through that the colleague , the Minister of the Finance .
of any obviously , the surplus budget of this year will higher to , announced in February 99 . At place of keep these funds , why the government not - he not the taxes all of on , knowing that he there will a surplus ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , of the projections have was made by various organizations and institutions sincerely in our country regarding the performance of our economy for a period of several years and the surpluses probable for this even period .
in General , be for of the surpluses for the five next years .
I am of agreed with the Minister of the Finance present for say that , even if of such projections are useful to some for of planning , the period should be many more short for the budgétisation and the planning of the programs government .
of way realistic , a period of two years is to little close the period maximale with which be can work for the budgétisation and the planning of the programs .
I acknowledge however that , if we are too cautiously and if the surplus is more important that provided , he not could can - be not be used immediately .
the Defence national
the report of the Auditor General - Position implementation in implement of the Program of Ethics of the Defence
the hon. Michael A . Meighen :
honourable senators , my question the is to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
in his campaign in favour of the bill of bill C - 25 , who was to amend the Act on the Defence national , to the spring of 1998 , the government has said to the Canadians that all the recommendations related to the inquiry on the events of Somalia had was with in implement .
yet , in the part of the report to on the Defence national , the Auditor General out of first that the Program of Ethics of the Defence not has not still was fully ' in implement .
this program was the - cornerstone of the recommendations related to the inquiry on the events of Somalia .
the Leader of the government will he that the recommendations related to this inquiry not have not still was fully with in implement , and can - he we say when we can we expect to this that they the be ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , the Minister and the Department working to the What of the program that the Senator has mentioned .
the criticism of the Auditor General was rather that this program not operated not as he should operate that him .
this is a observation useful that the Minister will certainly to the seriously in his efforts in view of complete the implementation in implement of this program .
the Senator Meighen :
honourable senators , I am anxious of see soon released a report we fear that be has debated the implementation in application of the program .
the heritage
the behind in the construction of the new Museum of the War - Position protection of the trésors national
the hon. Norman K . Atkins :
honourable senators , my question the is to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
yesterday , I him have asked if the government was really to the construction of a new Museum of the War .
the government knows - he that the House Vimy , who is full to craquer , suffering also of totalled who fuient and of a ventilation and of a conditionnement of air of peerage quality , this who highlights in danger more of 12 . must of art , which some of great value ?
I him recommends however , and that to all the senators , of go visit the House Vimy .
that fact the government for ensure to this that these trésors national be protected in pending that he wants of fund or not a new Museum Canadian of the War ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I wish to ensure personally to the Senator that , before the resuming of the business of the Senate , to the over of the new year , I will visited the home Vimy .
the question that raises the Senator is serious .
as he the out , I not in know not many to this about .
however , I take few information and I visiterai personally the be .
the new Museum of the War - Position nature of the funding private
the hon. David Tkachuk :
honourable senators , my question with a observation that the Leader of the government to the Senate has made yesterday on a about analogue .
he the was of the need of was of the funds with of the sector private for build the new Museum Canadian of the War .
of what funding private the Minister spoke - he ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I was referring to the possible of start a campaign of funding private to which the Canadians would invited to participate .
the Senator Tkachuk :
honourable senators , this campaign will it lancée by the Party Liberal of the Canada , by the government of the Canada , by the former Veterans or , can - be , by of the people who have has of the War , as Winchester and Jeep ?
the Minister could can - be we explain how the déroulera this campaign .
I is shame that we seeing even until to speak of this question .
I know that the senators of in opposite not are no shame when he the is of discuss of questions of this such .
that where we want really in come , this is that we not have not of money for build a new Museum of the War and , yet , we deducted of the money for of other things , which 1.3 million of $ for of the contracts accorded to of the Liberal in all the country .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , if I understand well , the content of some elements of the question of the Senator not was not all to fact seriously .
we have a distinguished Canadian and former veteran , the honorableBarney ' , and the Committee , who are directly " in this bill .
I there that he they inevitably to all the efforts who will been for that the Canadians support financially this bill .
the Senator Tkachuk :
honourable senators , when the Canadians may Mr. ' how of money the government of the Canada the is committed to any , that their will he ?
the Senator Boudreau :
the business of the Senate
the Hon. the Speaker good tempore :
honourable senators , the time would for the period of the questions is now has .
the leave is - it granted of continue , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
the Speaker is indeed for ask if the senators souhaitaient extend the period of the questions .
I believe that we should have for practice of not not in Authorize the extension the Wednesday .
we should limit the period of the questions of way to this that he be possible of rise the Senate to 15 p.m. 30 , as we wish the to the Wednesday , to time for that the committees can continue their important business .
response Senate to a question orale
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I have the response to a question that the hon. Senator Sparrow has raised to the Senate the 16 November 99 , to the about of the possible of protect more the people against the violence .
the justice
the possible of protect more the people against the violence
( response to a question raised by the honorableHerbert O . Sparrow the 16 November 99 )
few provinces the concerned of the prohibit with violation of home .
this type of behaviour criminal is serious and based of the fear to the citizens , particularly to the people seniors .
the press , who has recently reported of the incidents to Vancouver , in British - British , has drew the attention on of such actions .
that the Centre international for the prevention of the youth ( CIPC ) , located to Montreal , " flight with violation of home " the will of the effraction of home with flight qualified , this is - to - say flight of property with threat or use of violence or the two for the perpétration of the act criminal , or well with use of a weapon attacking or of a s of weapon .
of such actions have place when the people are in they , the objective of these actions the of steal of the property , of the money and of the drugs addressed .
in a report of 1996 on the statistics criminal to the Canada , the Centre Canadian of the statistics legal ( CCSJ ) has record that of the rate of impact of the prohibit with violation of home .
the CCSJ publie of the reports on the major trends of the justice criminal .
the prohibit qualified have decreased in 1998 for the second year consécutive , with a decline of 3 per , the effractions have decreased of 7 per and the actions criminals violent , of 2 per for the sixth year consécutive .
during of the meeting of the under - ministers federal , provincial and territorial responsible of the justice , inducted and 26 February 99 , he has was agreed that the question of the flight with violation of home would referred to the senior officials for that be completed to this about of the opportunities of measures , legislation or other .
a document to this about is in preparedness .
the Centre national of the prevention of the crime has borne to the CIPC a study on the means of reduce and of prevent effectively the cambriolage of residence and the flight with violation of home , in which the degree and the magnitude of the - this will be évalués , to the plans national and international , and will be discussed the factors of risk and the best actions of prevention .
this document will help to develop of the strategies not legislation of prevention in s of flight with violation of home .
, the words of the provisions current of the Code criminal , a condemnation for flight qualified or flight with effraction system a only maximale of - to perpétuité .
a such only reflects the fact that the Parliament consider that these actions criminals are very serious .
if the flight qualified is made with a weapon to gun , a only minimum of - of four years is order .
of the judgments recent with the flight with violation of home reflect the principles and the objectives of the determination of the only .
of the disappointment very unclear have was prononcées .
in R . . Matwiy ( 1996 ) , per C . C . C . ( 3e ) Naturalization , where the contrevenant had made a flight with violation of home , the Court of call of the Alberta has felt that the actions criminals who them it to the right of the citizens to the security of their home and to the protection against the intrusions must be Softwood with the more great seriously .
the court has reminded that the Court Supreme of the Canada also had recognized the uniqueness inviolable of the home staff and that this inviolabilité was the a of the principles of the way way since would .
few judgments of the Alberta have prepared that the only minimum for the flight with violation of home was be of eight years of - and that this act criminal sort a only minimum more much that the flight to with they of a bank or of a institution commercial .
a judgment recent of the Court Supreme of the British - British , R . . Bernier , has court to quatorze years of other a contrevenant who has in to a intrusion in a home .
the Justice Bouck motive his decision in saying that before that motivation the scourge of the country of domiciles , the Court of call of the British - British numbers a only of - variant of four to nine years when the into by effraction was particular of a flight qualified but that the magnitude of the situation was now that the Court the precludes of the only normally on in of such case ...
order DAY THE
the Act of implementation in implement of the Agreement on the Station spatiale international civil
second Reading
the order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Stollery , seconded by the hon. Senator Hays , Honourable to the second Reading of the bill of bill C - 4 , Act to implementation in implement of the Agreement an between the government of the Canada , the governments of States members of the Agency spatiale European , the government of the Japan , the government of the Federation of Russia and the government of the States - United of America on the cooperation Current to the Station spatiale international civil and Dolly of the changes other to of other laws .
the hon. William Kelly :
honourable senators , I am happy of speak today today of the bill of bill C - 4 .
however , I to all of first congratulate the Senator Stollery of the statement on the bill of bill , who was clear and of quality .
the bill of bill C - 4 is necessary , because he provide to the Canada the manipulation schemes which he has need for respect his obligations to the words of the Agreement on the cooperation Current to the Station spatiale international civil .
if I have well including , the States - United have ratified the agreed in April 1998 . - Japan the has ratified in November 1998 . - Germany and the Norway the have also ratified .
the process of ratification is in over to the Canada , to the Kingdom - U and in of other country European , and the be the is set the 29 January 2000 as date target for the ratification complete of the agreed .
he not there has that in Russia , country déchiré by of the problems political and economic Canada , that the ratification not is not imminente for the moment .
as each the knows , in our regime , the conclusion of agreements international is the prerogative of the Crown .
the approval of the Parliament not is not necessary for the agreed proprement said ; however , it is necessary for harmonize some aspects of the legislation Canadian with the agreed .
that given of the fact that he the is of a agreed international who has of the impact major for the Canada on the plan economic and in the sectors of the research and of the Technology and that given of the fact that the agreed with of several aspects until to now inexplorés , I think that be would could give to the Parliament more of time for to the bill of bill and the agreed and that their impact .
I that and I hope that these questions will scrutinized carefully in Committee - of the least , I hope that they will examined more carefully that to the other place .
what that he in be , I believe that this is a bill of bill which we should approve the principle with enthusiasm .
this bill of bill is necessary for that the Canada can play the role of partner in the a of the more grandioses bills scientific of the history , to know the Station spatiale international civil .
honourable senators , the participation Canadian to the Argonauts spatiale not represents certainly that 2.5 per of the cost total , that the estimates , but our task is to provide the Service of maintenance devised , or SEM , who will a part of a importance capital .
, my knowledge , the SEM will to the patchwork of the Argonauts spatiale and to in ensure the maintenance during any his life useful .
the SEM is composed of equipment and of facilities the finding as to on of the Argonauts that to land .
among the elements to on of the Argonauts , be that the system of télémanipulation of the Argonauts spatiale , who is a what spatial sophistiqué , and the system of maintenance devised .
the Canada provide also the manipulative to service special , who is a robot to two what .
the Canadarm and the system of télémanipulation of the Argonauts a all the two to the patchwork and to the maintenance of the Argonauts spatiale during any his life useful predicted of 10 years .
the facilities to land found by the Canada starts a complex of operations of the SEM located to the seat Main of the Agency spatiale Canadian to St. - Hubert , to the Quebec .
the Agency spatiale has was a important catalyst for the contribution of the Canada to the industry .
the industry spatiale of the Canada is become a rouage important of the economy Canadian .
as the Senator Stollery the has fact out , it is to the origin of income of more of a billion of $ , which 30 per from of the exports .
it represents 5 . jobs in more of 250 businesses of a across to the other of the country .
this is a industry in which the sector private Canadian has played a role of Prime plan .
the sector private hides about a million of $ by year in R - D linked to of the bills spatiaux .
be for that the participation of the Canada to the bill of Argonauts spatiale will 1.4 billion of $ and produces to the Canada more of six billion of $ and 70 . years - people in employment .
the Argonauts spatiale we will of to of the progress in the telecommunications , particularly in the telecommunications without son , who are if important for the Canada in reason of our great relates geographical and of our many communities vital .
the Argonauts spatiale will of to advance the technical of observation of the land , a sector of two billion of $ by year who is in full expansion and where the Canada the is already as Leader of leadership through to Radarsat .
in despite of the importance of the industry spatiale for the economy Canadian , particularly for the growth of the economy of the next generation , the funding government of the Agency spatiale Canadian is past of 378 million of $ in 1993 - 1994 to 350 million this year .
I must say , honourable senators , that I hope that that not is not a sign before - coureur of a scenario which be authorization of time in time .
we have in effect trend to conclude of the agreements , to we Services in of the bills very important then to reduce gradually the contribution that we had agreed of would to the origin .
I hope that this not is not this who the on .
I have said more earlier that this initiative deserved , to my notice , our support from .
I not say not that only in reason of the benefits economic to short term , but for several other reasons .
the Station spatiale international not has no role military direct .
by example , it not can not serve to start of the satellites or of the missiles .
that guarantees that it will only to of the for domains .
he must all particularly support and encourage the participation of the Russia to the bill .
the experience Russian , with the Argonauts spatiale MIR , represents of great benefits for the bill .
the module of service Svezda , initiated in October by the agency aerospace Russian , will of first will of habitation and of centre of control of the Argonauts until to the arrived of the module USS Destiny , to the beginning of the year next .
the fusées russes Proton and Soyouz are also of the elements important of the bill .
the Parliament Russian not has not still " the process been of ratification of the agreement , but I believe know that the participation Russian the fact as provided and the will .
of a point of view can - be a little more absorbing , I say that the participation of the Canada him give the right of use the Argonauts for make of the experiences scientific and technical .
in under of the section 21 of the agreement , the results of all the business of research wishes by each of the partners would his ownership independent .
for that the Canada is the better party possible of this opportunity without precedent , the Agency spatiale Canadian has ' on at a program in microgravité to that the researchers Canadian diversifying of the experience in the conception and the conduct of experiences and in the use of equipment spatial .
the program in microgravité includes also of the funds for the training and the implementation to the point of the equipment necessary to the conduct of business of research in the Argonauts spatiale .
by therefore , the Canada will with of a ability industrial and of research who him will of use the full ability scientific and of research of the Argonauts spatiale .
finally , honourable senators , he there has 40 years , a young chairman American we one to the challenge of urge the new sector of the space .
when he the has fact , the world vivait in the shades of the War Cold , in the fear Increase that the competition between the two superpuissances down by all to a conflagration nuclear .
the chairman Kennedy not saw in the , to the space that a , to to to to a superpuissance of the give a over economic , scientific , military and ideological by report to the other .
what move we have across !
, the over of a century who has known the first balbutiements of the required , we have sent a man on the Lune .
we have sent of the sondes in the confins of the space .
we placerons soon a microphone who we will of hear for the first time the sons any of the planet Mars .
we not are more to the doors of a new border , as the said the chairman Kennedy .
we have now served this territory and we we doing to benefit of the many benefits that he rough .
however , he any more that all of out that in the framework of a initiative as the of the Station spatiale international and of any a series of agreements international to with to the space , our occupation of the be not has nothing of territorial and is rather of the objectives scientific and of learning to the profit of any the humanity .
we happen the space not not with of the instruments of War , but well with of the instruments of peace .
honourable senators , drove of this spirit , I you please of well would study the bill of bill C - 4 .
I will forward of participate to the time to the study in Committee and to the step of the third Reading , if necessary .
the Hon. the Speaker :
if no other hon. Senator not to take the speak , I remind that he has was proposed by the hon. Senator Hays , seconded by the hon. Senator Moore , that the bill of bill it the subject of a second Reading .
you pleasure - he , honourable senators , of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed and the bill of bill is read a second time . )
referred to the Committee
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when read - we this bill of bill a third time ?
( on the motion of the Senator Hays , the bill of bill is referred to the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign . )
the Act on the Assent Royal
second Reading - Motion of amendment - Order to the rêglement - Adjourned of the debate in the Awaiting of the decision of the Speaker
the order of the day Order :
the hon. Anne C . Cools :
honourable senators , I like to few remarks to the about of the bill of bill S - 7 .
I was indeed the 9 June 1988 on the predecessor , the bill of bill S - 15 , who was identical .
honourable senators , I believe in the Constitution of the Canada , in the monarchy constitutional , in his institutions and in Majesty Majesty , the Queen ElizabethII.
, my arrived to the Senate , I have came oath of with to Majesty Majesty .
he is of my duty , that given of this oath , of confirm the rights and interests of Majesty Majesty in as that third part integral of the Parliament of the Canada .
the Act constitutional of 1867 , section 17 , states :
he there will , for the Canada , a Parliament who will composed of the Queen , of a House high called the Senate , and of the House of the Commons .
honourable senators , I thank the hon. Senator Lynch - Lynch of have for the held of this debate who directly to point , of as more after the results of the referendum australien on the monarchy .
the 6 November 99 , the Australiens have voted by 55p. per against 45 of keep the Queen Elizabeth II for monarque .
the bill of bill S - 7 relates on the prerogative Royal of Majesty Majesty regarding the granting of the Assent Royal to the bills of bill adopted by the Senate and the House of the Commons .
the subject of the bill of bill is the Assent Royal who give force of bill to the bills of bill adopted .
the bill of bill S - 7 with a problem constitutional important and pressing .
how the Assent Royal , the instrument even who give force of bill to a bill of bill , can - it it - even to the subject of a bill of bill who , a time adopted , will receive the Assent Royal for have force of bill ?
honourable senators , the prerogative Royal is the touchstone of the government by the executive and it makes possible the fact that the government be responsible .
the prerogative Royal is if essential that the Statut of Westminster of born stated that any amendment to the Kingdom - U of the from to the Throne or to the as Alaska or to the by was receive the whatsoever of the Parliaments of the States of the Commonwealth , which was part the Canada .
the Statut of Westminster said in part this :
whereas that he is , since the day is the symbol of the free association of all the members of the Commonwealth British and that they are favourite by a common with to the - this , of to in preamble that would consistent to their situation constitutional the obligation of opt now any amendment of the rules of from to the Throne and of Presented of the by Commanding to the whatsoever of the parlements of the dominions as to , of the Parliament of the Kingdom - U ;
honourable senators , the media have reported in September the act of the Governor General a , Mr. Roméo LeBlanc , relatively to the armoiries of the vice - king , the lion and the language of the lion .
the readers of the National Financial should know few facts regarding the prétendues armoiries of the vice - king .
the armoiries in question not are not " the armoiries official " Mr. Roméo LeBlanc , as be we the has said , but the armoiries royal used to the Canada , phase - and to wrong - appelées the armoiries of the Canada .
of even , these armoiries not can not be appelées armoiries of the vice - king because that they are part of the armoiries of Majesty Majesty of the Leader of the Canada , as the has confirmed the proclamation of 1921 .
provide on a other Governor General who has from a " Alaska of the office of the Governor General , Mr. Meyer has wrote this :
, the over of the mandate of Gouverneure general , Ms Jeanne Sauvé has recently the paper to letter , the plats and the assiettes of magnificent Hall , and until to the guérites of the residence of the Governor General , of the day who was used since the beginning of the Confederation .
it the has replaced by this that his laquais décrivirent as the " lion vice - Alaska " , this is - to - say the emblème who fact the subject of the dissatisfaction Mr. LeBlanc .
some say that this is a generates absolute and a at for the House of the Commons .
the ministers find simply too disruption of there attend .
this is became too disruption for the Prime Minister , then for the ministers , then for the members , then also for the judges of the Court Supreme of the Canada .
fumisterie !
the honourable senators , however , meetings faithfully to the Assent Royal in this Room , to the Senate , the House of the Assent Royal .
honourable senators , I is those who dismiss that the Assent Royal is a all formality .
they the trompent .
their with false or erronée not can , to force of répétitions , become true or fair .
Benjamin Disraeli , who has was Prime Minister of the Kingdom - U to the end of the 19 century , has described in the thing of 1852 , Rifles George Bentinck :
has Political Biography , the real force and the real sense of the Assent Royal by the Queen .
he wrote :
in as that Division of the Parliament which the decision is final , and therefore sollicitée in last , the opinion of the sovereign remains free and not compromised until to this that the whatsoever of the two Houses has was received .
this veto of the monarque English not is not not more a formula vacuum .
he not is not difficult of imagine the case where the year , seconded by the sympathy of a people assumption , could any a s anticonstitutionnel and a Parliament corrompu .
honourable senators , this is the real place constitutional of the Assent Royal in our monarchy constitutional based on the responsibility government .
the Assent Royal is this step Parliamentary and is the only step in all our process legislative Parliamentary where the three elements establish the Parliament the Subcommittee for form the Parliament of the Canada in the framework of the enacted of laws , of the changing of measures in laws .
the Assent Royal is this act quintessenciel in our system of government first responsible who country the presence of the Queen to the Parliament , this point turning in the process of Adopted of the laws to the Parliament . Position Assent Royal not is not a simple formality .
this is a procedure essential .
this is the act the more visible of the Queen of the Canada , who , since the Confederation , the fact to the Senate for of good reasons Constitutional .
the senators must protect the visibilité of the role real of the Queen in the Parliament of the Canada and our Constitution .
the Clerk of the House of the Commons is the under - Clerk of the Parliaments .
the huissière of the such says is the messagère personal of the Queen who plays this role between the Queen and the two Houses for to to the Queen of the a of his duties parliamentarians .
the duties Constitutional of the Parliament of the Canada not can be accomplies that to the Senate .
all the Parliament the has here for the speech of the Throne , that be was before the speech of the sovereign .
until in 1947 about , the Governor General of the Canada had his offices in the Block of the East .
still all recently , the Governor General had here , to the Senate , for proroger the Parliament and dissoudre the Houses - of the duties parliamentarians important who the exerçaient of way visible until to this that , for of the reasons administrative , the prorogation and the disbanding the do in private , to the residence official of the Governor General , far of the be of the public , of his knowledge and of his understanding .
the public not can not know , because that be the him his , his own language , culture and customs political then that the Position of the monarque in as that pivot is reduced .
the convenience administrative not is not a ground valid for disbanding of the practices Constitutional essential .
the former Prime Minister Pierre Elliott Trudeau has described the strategy categorized current of the Quebec respect " independence underhanded " , respect " étapisme " , a concept invented by the late Prime Minister separatist of the Quebec , René Lévesque .
they want such or such power now , such other power then , and earlier or later , the Québecois finiront by see that they are gouvernés more by Quebec that by Ottawa and they will then the great like in as on to their bill .
we in do as with the monarchy to the Canada ; we supprimons a mention in the behalf of a Department , we do people a " here or that , we renonçons to such or such tradition , and of on .
honourable senators , the Senator Lynch - Lynch believe that the change that he move of to to the Assent Royal must from by a bill of bill .
he has reason .
a bill of bill the is for amend of way also fundamental the order constitutional of his Majesty and of the Senate to the Canada .
the Senator move of amend the prerogative Royal of Majesty Majesty in this who has with to the Assent Royal given to the bills of bill .
this change or a restriction .
the bill of bill S - 7 limit the year of the prerogative Royal in s of Assent Royal and , same , limit the form of the Senate .
a amendment of the prerogative Royal of this magnitude not can be took that by the seaway of a bill of bill , in the respect of the practice constitutional , of the right and of the impressive parliamentarians .
, the about of the consent Alaska , Beauchesne said this to the paragraph 726.1 of the sixth edition :
honourable senators , this is a example of the étapisme of our monarchy .
honourable senators , in this who has with to the step of the deliberations on the consent Alaska , lecommentaire 726 ( 2 ) of Beauchesne said this :
the use to that the consent Alaska be " as the pre of the debate .
the is makes nulles and not cooperating the deliberations pensioners in view of the Adopted of the bill of bill .
, about of the consent Alaska and of the second Reading , the comment 727 ( 1 ) of Beauchesne said this :
the consent of the Crown is vital each time that he the is of questions an in because his prerogatives .
well that the consent can be " to not any what step of the deliberations before the Adopted clear of the bill of bill , the use of the House to that he the be during of the Presented of the motion to second Reading .
honourable senators , the counsel of Majesty Majesty , the ministers , the conseilleurs private , seize pursuant to the rules determined , have , constitutionnellement about , quality for obtain the consent Alaska .
by therefore , during of the study of a bill of bill with the prerogatives royal , he there has all place of believe that they can mean the consent Alaska .
however , for a simple Parliamentary , the situation is very different .
for a simple Parliamentary of a party of Opposition , the situation is also interesting .
if the bill of bill of this Parliamentary of a party of Opposition receives the support of the government , the situation would strange on the plan constitutional , because the ministers of Majesty Majesty , his eminent counsel , in denying législativement and parlementairement of maintain and of defend the prerogatives of Majesty Majesty , belong in calling these prerogatives same , which they receive their authority , their power and their prééminence government .
this situation risquerait of standard a crisis constitutional .
however , I underscored here on the simple parliamentarians and on the legislation in which they could , with their bills of bill , amend the prerogatives royal .
honourable senators , the communication who the is for obtain the consent Alaska of Majesty Majesty has was interdependence in the fourth report of the Committee Standing of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure , who has was presented to the Senate 6 November 1985 .
I believe that this Committee was then chaired by the Senator Gildas Molgat .
the third recommendation of the report said , to the page 1469 :
that of the representatives of the Senate are of the representatives of the House of the Commons for write a resolution in view of the preparedness of a is who must be introduced conjunction by the two Houses to His Excellency the Governor General the advisable of well would approve some changes to the ceremony of the Assent Royal which in this report .
the words key are " is " and " the advisable of well would approve " .
all the sources who are authority suitable that the House must receive the consent Alaska in the case of all bill of bill who amend the prerogatives royal of the Queen , before that he not be adopted in this House .
honourable senators , in this who has with to the Position of the simple parliamentarians and to the obligation that they have to the House to the about of bills of bill similar , Alpheus Todd , in the thing already quoted , has wrote :
this means should be given before the Presented of the bill of bill .
but when a bill of bill of interest public who does to this description is supposed be presented by a simple Parliamentary , and not in under of the power of ministers , the House should the address to the Crown for him ask the leave of act to this about , before the Presented proposed bill of bill ; ...
, no time he not has said how he continued proceed for ask and obtain the consent Alaska of Majesty Majesty , condition pre vital for that the Senate is and this this bill of bill .
the Senator Lynch - Lynch has the duty of to a is to Majesty Majesty the Queen for him ask of increase to this that we considering this bill of bill .
this is on this motion to this is that the debate public and Parliamentary the ensuivra .
motion of amendment
the hon. Anne C . Cools :
this said , honourable senators , I like propose a amendment to the motion .
I move :
that the bill of bill S - 7 not be not now read a second time , but rather when the sponsor remplira the condition exigée by the bill of the Parliament before the Adopted by the Parliament of a bill of bill of initiative Parliamentary amend a prerogative Royal , this condition preliminary the the means of the consent Alaska of Majesty Majesty to the study by the Parliament of his interests in the bill of bill S - 7 , who move of limit and of amend the formalités of granting of the Assent Royal by Majesty Majesty to the Canada , and of the even the of amend the form of the Senate .
the hon. Eymard G . Corbin :
honourable senators , I like that be me being a question and a observation by on of the speech of her the Senator Cools .
in the framework of his remarks , it has used the word " laquais " in about of the staff of the residence or of the office of the Governor General .
the Senator Cools :
I have spoke of what ?
I not have never nothing said of such .
the Senator Corbin :
you the have well said .
our practices parliamentarians we basis of to of the remarks perks on the human of the Queen or of the Governor General .
I am sure that that the over also to the staff of the House and to , of the Governor General .
I am also sure that the words of her the Senator Cools have beyond his s .
this not is not to I of him remind that he is inconvenant of use of such words , but this is very clear in the spirit of all .
I me ask if the Senator Cools would withdraw his words .
I raises the question in the even spirit who we would we against to the use of this term for describe the staff of the Senate .
I not believe not that we should describe of the so the staff of the residence of the Governor General .
the Senator Cools :
honourable senators , I thank the Senator Corbin for his question .
I attention that he the wrong and that I not have not said this that he me fact say .
I wish to say clear to all the world here that I am probably the more great partisan that the monarque and the Governor General have had to the Senate .
I wish to well make that these about not are not the rereading .
the Senator Stratton :
is - this that you we méprisez ?
the Senator Cools :
if you want take the speak , not you gênez particularly not !
these about not are not the rereading .
I the as , this are the about of the chairman of the Division of the British - British and of the Yukon of the Corporation héraldique of the Canada , Mr. Rean Meyer .
I have read to the senators a letter Mr. Meyer has written , the 8 September 99 , to the National Financial .
if the Senator Corbin the to , I him fournirai with happy a copy of this section to that he can the to and see that these about not are not the rereading , but those of the author of the letter .
I wish to well make that I am so caring to the office of the Governor General that I love that the Governor General come here each time that a Assent Royal the is .
my about is today today to encourage the Gouverneurs worry of the Canada to exercise their with powers in as that representative staff of Majesty Majesty .
this bill of bill has his supporters as he has his detractors .
be me said that several former Gouverneurs worry not are not delighted of some provisions of the bill of bill .
I thank still the Senator Lynch - Lynch of have initiated this debate because the Assent Royal fact part integral of the Senate .
when I have was appointed here , I have fact the oath of be loyal to Majesty Majesty and I jure before God of the be .
this is exactly this that I am in tain of to .
the Senator Corbin :
honourable senators , for to on this that I have said to the Senator Cools , he not would not that it the wrong on my attitude .
it has been many of sympathy in I for support the point of view .
however , we must to attention to this that we say .
he is came that , in the other place , the Speaker Justice that be not can not to indirectly this that he is banned of to directly .
when be quote a letter or a section of newspaper of the pen of a human who not is not a intervening in the debate , his about among those of the orator .
well that this soitM. Meyer who the has wrote , this is the Senator Cools who has proféré this word to the Senate .
the Senator Cools can in think this that it to , but I believe that that not or nothing to his way .
I believe rather that that rabaisse the level of the debate .
the Senator Cools :
use to the Rules
the hon. John Lynch - Lynch ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I point the Rules .
I ask to the Speaker of take in consideration this motion that he overcome then out .
he not there has nothing in the bill of bill who amend the prerogative Royal or the Assent Royal .
the bill of bill move simply that the ceremony traditional , who not is not subscribed by a bill , be préservée and , in as of other possible , that the granting of the Assent Royal the which to the way of a message .
the prerogative of Majesty Majesty , the Assent Royal , third part constituante of the Parliament , demeurerait exactly the even .
the bill of bill not fact that propose two ' different of which the Assent Royal , which the a is the that we produced already to the least two time by year .
this motion will more far that the bill of bill .
it an a point who not is absolutely not raised in the bill of bill , to know the prerogative Royal .
by therefore , I ask to His Hon. the Speaker of the to out .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I would propose the adjournment of the debate .
however , the Senator Lynch - Lynch ask a decision and I not know not the he is of adjourn the debate in of such circumstances .
if be can the to , then I move the adjournment .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , be has invoqué the Rules .
the practice usual in this case require that the Speaker based the other senators who wish speak of this use to the Rules .
when the Speaker is of notice that the Senate has received enough of information , he can the deal or take the question in advisement .
I entendrai therefore the other senators who want speak to the about of the use to the Rules .
the hon. Sharon Carstairs :
honourable senators , I am of agreed with the use to the Rules of the Senator Lynch - Lynch .
the bill of bill which we are before , and that I support , result of a practice of this House and not move nothing of more .
the Governor General , and by therefore the Queen , must as a way of which properly the Assent Royal to a bill of bill .
the this bill of bill with of the process to follow for which the Assent Royal .
that my interpretation , this legislation legislative not impropriety no the prerogative .
the objective of this bill of bill is of to end to a ceremony who had place in this House then that or the Governor General or the members to the House of the Commons not were attendance .
the hon. ë A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
our procedures an a series of guarantees .
he must give a notice for that the honourable senators know to the advance what proposal will introduced .
all condition pre on to the freedom of the legislature or of a Parliamentary of to a motion in the a or the other House of the Parliament must be explicitly scheduled in the Rules .
no rule not far of the obstacles that the senators should have to overcome before of power to a motion .
the motion of amendment which we are before said clear that the sponsor of the bill of bill S - 7 should , before of to the bill of bill , satisfy to some conditions .
I believe that this is that the point crucial of the point to the Rules presented to the Speaker .
we must take great be of preserve the freedom who is bogged to all the honourable senators , who not must not be entravés by of the conditions other that those who have was determined for facilitate the good conduct of our business .
the condition who is on here , that the wording direct of the amendment , move a form of censorship , in this sense that it move a so of review pre which all Senator should the put before of power to a motion .
the section 2 of the Rules said :
" bill of bill " : a bill of bill of the Parliament , that he be private or public .
the legislation does to this definition , and he not there has nothing of other in the Rules which this motion of amendment can met , to my humble notice .
the Senator Cools :
honourable senators , I like answer .
without repeat all this that I have said , I ask that , for the study of the point to the Rules , any my intervention , the points that I have raised and the were that I have prevailing be took in consideration by Honour Hon. .
before of responding to the Senator Lynch - Lynch , I wish to to out that the objection me seems out .
of , , he not has not known explain why the motion is , that him , irregularly .
I déconseille to the honourable senators of point the Rules in the hope of avoid of debate of some questions important .
I not pretend not that this be this that the Senator Lynch - Lynch was or had the intention of to .
however , if the Senator Lynch - Lynch raises a objection , he is of the duty , I believe , of we explain his reasons and of quote the precedents and the authorities on which he the based .
of after this that I have heard and this that the Senator Lynch - Lynch has said , he not the has not fact in this case - this .
my amendment is good .
I not about here or of the content or of the well - based of the bill of bill in itself , contrary to this that has fact the Senator Carstairs .
the Senator Carstairs support the bill of bill and discutait therefore of the content and of the well - based .
for the moment , we are before of a point to the Rules .
the honourable senators , all as His Hon. , not are not without know that we not must not we in back to the Speaker of the Senate for manner the questions provisions to the Constitution and to the right constitutional .
these questions must be settled by the together of the Senate .
my amendment is not was .
I in have has copy to the Senator Lynch - Lynch .
I not have not said that he must him impose of the limits .
honourable senators , with this use to the Rules , he not the is not of determine if the Senator Lynch - Lynch has the right of to this that he fact .
this that we must determine , this is if the Senator Lynch - Lynch are of a manner who is consistent to the Constitution of this place , to the Constitution of our country , to the laws of our country and in the interest of Majesty Majesty the Queen .
we have discussed been of these questions .
I will read a of the statements the more fearlessly never made on this question .
this statement has was made to the House of the Lords , the 30 March 1911 , by Lord Lansdowne .
the honourable senators the will can - be that this was to the time a debate key .
I remind to the honourable senators that he there has had to the Kingdom - U , to the time , a problem of the fact of the amendment of the powers of the Lords and of Majesty Majesty regarding the granting of the Assent Royal to the bills of bill adopted to the House of the Commons .
this was a debate very important , honourable senators , and I me would attendue to this that the Senator Lynch - Lynch its some precedents and information historic .
for the moment , I will quote Lord Lansdowne .
he has said this :
, our notice , this is certainly to it to the right of the Parliament that of adopt , in the a or the other of the Houses , a bill of bill who has of the impact on the prerogatives of the Crown , that , without the whatsoever of the Crown .
honourable senators , the consent Alaska equivalent to the whatsoever pre .
he and :
I think that human not the contestera .
we concluons also , of after these precedents , that even if this Assent can be obtenue to not any what step , the procedure normal is of the obtain before the Tabled of the bill of bill .
the or that I have used in my speech precedent is clear that he has was agreed that the consent Alaska should be from before the Tabled of the bill of bill .
all the sources by authority addition that he can be from , including by of the ministers seize in the framework of their responsibilities , to a step later .
he not fact not of doubt that this debate the on since of the years .
the Senator Lynch - Lynch not we has not said of what way he will satisfy to the Assent Royal .
be can try of agencer the things not any how ; however , the fact is that any initiative or all bill of bill Parliamentary proposing of amend the prerogative Royal of Majesty Majesty must of first obtain the consent , this who is a other way of say that " the Assent must be granted to the advance " .
this used , honourable senators , has over also in a other field of the prerogative Royal , to know the initiatives financial of the Crown .
in the case of the recommendation Royal , this is more difficult .
that is provided to the sections 53 and 54 of the Act constitutional of 1867 .
this recommendation must be made to the House of the Commons before the Tabled of the bill of bill .
as to the consent Alaska , he can be " more later .
little any how be addressed the question , honourable senators , the fact is that human not can to of way again and credible that be can have a discussion to the Senate to the about of the future of the powers of Majesty Majesty relatively to the Assent Royal without consult of first the Governor General or Majesty Majesty the Queen it - even .
this is specifically because that this question has was négligée and écartée these past years that I have presented this amendment to the motion to second Reading , to that a debate can the initiate on the question of know if the consent Alaska is necessary .
he me seems that he must more that the Senator outlive of the Senator Carstairs or of the Senator Lynch - Lynch .
I have to the least statement the precedents and the facts historic and I can give still many of other reference if the debate the on .
the Hon. the Speaker :
, the order , the he you pleasure .
Senator Cools , I you have inquire because that I have had the Appendix that you vouliez speak of the further of the bill of bill and not of the point to the Rules .
there has he of other senators who want speak on the point to the Rules ?
the Senator Lynch - Lynch :
be not an not to the Assent Royal .
this not is certainly not we who will that .
he the is of a prerequisite constitutional that we respect .
the bill of bill move simply of to of express the Assent Royal differently , the form current the remained .
by therefore , I believe that all the manipulation of the motion are await and that this is this that should to the Speaker .
the Hon. the Speaker :
there has he of other honourable senators who wish speak on the point to the Rules ?
if , I take the question in advisement .
( adjournment of the debate in pending the decision of the Speaker . )
Affairs legal and Constitutional
Authorized to the Committee of sit in even time that the Senate
leave to was granted of from to the motions :
the hon. Lorna Milne , pursuant to the notice 25 November 99 , move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional be authorized to sit 3:30 p.m. 30 the Wednesday 1 December 99 , even if the Senate seat to this time - that , and that the application duparagraphe 95 ( 4 ) of the Rules be suspended to this regard .
the Hon. the Speaker :
you pleasure - he , honourable senators , of adopt the motion ?
the hon. John Lynch - Lynch ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I not repeat not this that I have said more of a time here .
if I me against to this such of motion , this not is not that I to blame the chairmen of the committees .
in fact , I the plains because that they are to the taken with a from who the force to sit to 15 p.m. 30 the Wednesdays .
he there has four committees in this situation , which , of the Affairs foreign , , of the Banking and of the trade , and , of the Affairs legal and Constitutional .
I not to not say that he there has of the committees who are least important that of other , but this are that some of the committees the more active .
someone a their has imposed a from who the force to sit to 15 p.m. 30 , knowing very well that he is came more of a time recently that we used over - beyond of 15 p.m. 30 . We are even gone sometimes until to 17 p.m. ou18 p.m. .
by therefore , these committees must ask constantly to the Senate the leave of sit in even time that the Senate .
why not can - be not replicating the from of the committees and the adapt to the from of the Senate to the place of ask to the Senate of adapt the from to , of the committees ?
this is also simple that that .
I understand the Senator Milne .
the Senator Kolber the without to ask the even leave , and I understand why .
this is our fault because that we have agreed a from who not works not well .
we should respect our for here and decide that , the Wednesdays , we lèverons the Senate to 15 p.m. 30 , little any the situation .
this is this who had was agreed to the time .
now , we done rarely the Monday night , but we want that the Senate of the Wednesday be always short .
this system not works not .
after the summer , I hope that someone a will a for more realistic that , which we begin now .
still a time , I timely my frustration , that many shared , to my notice .
I am sure that if , to our return in February , of the changes not have not was Regional , be refusera of to the leave for require the Senate to amend this for who , of any obviously , not works not .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I have took the speak the last time that the Senator Lynch - Lynch is spoken on this question , and I the am still a time .
I not am not in disagreement with him .
in fact , I understand very well the argument .
in as that Leader Deputy of the government to the Senate - and I believe have the cooperation of the senators of in opposite on this question - , I believe that we seek to improve the for .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the hon. Senator Milne , seconded by the hon. Senator Taylor , move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional be authorized to sit 3:30 p.m. 30 the Wednesday 1 December 99 , even if the Senate seat to this time - that , and that the application duparagraphe 95 ( 4 ) of the Rules be suspended to this regard .
pleasure - he to the honourable senators of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
Banking and trade
Authorized to the Committee of sit in even time that the Senate
the hon. Leo E . Kolber :
honourable senators , of first , I wish to thank the Leader of the Opposition of his comments .
we not are that of poor senators working in the tranchées and we take our levels .
with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the paragraph 58 ( 1 ) of the Rules , I move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Banking and of the trade be authorized to sit to 15 p.m. 30 today today , even if the Senate seat to this time - that , and that the application of the paragraph 95 ( 4 ) of the Rules be suspended to this regard .
the Hon. the Speaker :
is - this of agreed , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Hon. the Speaker :
you pleasure - he , honourable senators , of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
Energy , environment and resources natural
motion to to Authorize the Committee to to the Act Canadian on the protection of the environment - Adjourned of the debate
the hon. Mira Spivak move , pursuant to the notice of motion of the 2 November 99 :
that the Senate urge the government to about on - the - report the review of the Act Canadian on the protection of the environment and to give the first step of this review to the Committee Senate Standing of the energy , of the environment and of the resources natural .
that the Committee Senate Standing Senate of the energy , of the environment and of the resources natural entreprenne on - the - report the review of the Act Canadian on the protection of the environment as he is recommended unanimous in the seventeenth report of the Committee who is 115 of the 8 September 99 and who has was tabled to the Senate the next .
the Hon. the Speaker :
leave is - it granted of amend the motion such that proposed by the hon. Senator Spivak ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator Spivak :
I move that the motion amended be placed to my behalf .
the Hon. the Speaker :
you pleasure - he , honourable senators , of adopt the motion such that amended ?
the Senator Spivak :
honourable senators , this motion exhorant the government to about on - the - report the review of the Act Canadian on the environment not is not my way hurling of proceed , or in fact the of the senators of this side - this of the House .
we take power amend a bill of bill who it angry to severely before that he not be adopted .
unfortunately , we not have not could improve the Bill bill C - 32 .
be we has imposed the horses to two occasions , a time in Committee and a time here , to the Senate .
he not we has even not was possible of we ensure that a some clause of the bill of bill had well the even sense in French and in English .
the senators of the other side have proposed in their report majority that the government stakeholder the next review of the bill of bill C - 32 immediately after the Adopted .
that will to all the Canadians of express their notice and of follow the progress that fact the Minister in this who with the Progress and the definition of concepts as the " strengths " , the " quasi - Elimination " , the " agreements government in s of environment " and the " principle of the prudence " .
, our notice , let the are leave the pier then ask to the conducteur of to and of you say where will the are not is not a way of to .
we have the duty of we ensure of the means of these concepts and of ensure to this that these concepts be clear définis in the bill of way to this that they be compréhensibles for all the Canadians .
we have heard the pleas passion of a former official , who we has asked of not not overlooked of define this that he was hear by " cost - effectiveness " .
he we has was asked of not not let the officials the dépatouiller all only when they are to apply the bill for protect the health public and the environment .
the senators of in opposite want to the things differently and they we have therefore fact of the proposals .
, true say , a part of this that they have recommended not is not practical .
the review mindful , provided to the section 343 , must to of so the entirety of the provisions of the bill and the operating .
we not can not whether by where the are is past before that he not has made the parcours , but we can all of even so the program of routing established by the mécanicien .
we can we with on the guideline of application of the bill , ensured by the Minister .
as the has proposed the majority to the Committee , we can begin by give to the Canadians the possible of express their point of view and then monitor the evolution of the things .
be not can deal that nine marine by day , 365 days by year , or plusde 13 marine by day , if the be with that of the days fériés and of the for of week .
is - this that this is feasible ?
presumably , some of these 23 . marine not are more used and this would a real rallye that of be to the discover .
for those who the are still , the Minister has the choice between two options .
then , the members can try of to the part the more complex of the work , this is - to - say obtain the data who recommend if the exposure to a substance to a does given on a period of time given is separate for the people human or for the environment .
in of many case , there including for some of the few marine who the find on the list of the marine of interest priority , the data of exposure are very difficult to obtain .
this is for this unique reason that several marine not have not was réglementées .
the second option who the offer to the Minister is to meet these steps and to such the process .
I know that , to least that he not choisisse this last option , some industries are ready to the continue in justice .
he not would not in their interest that the members classent their marine chemical as toxins .
I am désolée that this be someone little complex , but he would many of time for rapporter all the arguments and explanation who we have was provided during the process of this bill of bill .
I hope that you me croirez on speak for this type of manila .
that is - this that this will ?
a process being or a process that some industries would .
the members of the Committee would implement useful , even the they not were that with this who fact problem .
he would also useful that the Minister ask the plan that he will follow for throughout the quasi - Elimination .
our Committee has received the note of service in which a of his senior officials had wrote that the quasi - Elimination , such that the new bill of bill the for , would impossible to throughout .
we would know exactly how the Minister will proceed for obtain of good results .
this is important for the Canadians , in particular for those of the North .
be advocating the model Canadian to the negotiations in view of develop a convention World on the reduction of the polluants organic works .
in the absence of a treaty rigorous , the Arctic Canadian continue of be the worse dépotoir to the world of PCB toxins such that the wastes , the products of the désagrégation of the DDT and of other products chemical bioaccumulatifs persistant in the air .
by therefore , when the delegates to the for of the treaty on the POP the be in March next to Bonn , the Minister should be prepared to put to the review the model Canadian .
of here that , we should have fact our devoirs and of to the Canadians the opportunity of express their opinions .
for of the reasons very practices , I move that this review immediate has place before our meeting of the Committee of the Senate .
first , the program of the Committee of the other place is already full .
he not has not still succeeded to complete a review of the system regarding the pesticides .
the Minister has promised a important legislation legislative regarding the cash in danger and , with a little of opportunity , we should have to we with on of the measures legislation regarding the change climate .
our Committee not has currently not a large backlog of bills of bill to study .
second , this is our Committee who has was submitted to the bâillon and who has proposed that the review starts the more quickly possible .
third , the Committee of the other place the is interested by intermittence to the Act Canadian on the protection of the environment for six years .
he the is well fought and , in across of n , the point of view has was rejected by a government who has listened the groups of pressure of the industry .
he would fair of say that he has contribute all the efforts possible , of the least for a sure time .
of this side - this of the House , the objective to long term remains of improve the legislation legislative .
we item between other things speak for correct the fact that the legislation legislative not require not that the government this of the measures in view of eliminate gradually not would - this that a senior of the elements toxins the more polluants .
these polluants are Rural for all the Canadians , and more particularly for the people of the North .
the bill not require not that the government respect a principle of précaution who means really someone something .
in reality , he there has contradiction between the two languages official .
be excludes the tis of a participation to a new Committee Advisory national .
be not recognizes not the efforts provided volunteers by of the companies responsible of the sector private .
he not there has no legislation they that of the concerns only regarding the health environmental of the children .
be reduced the power of the Minister of the Environment and be policies the taken of decisions to the Governor in board , particularly for this who is of the questions regarding the products of biotechnologie .
be withdrew also the power of the Minister of the Environment of to the effects seeing of products biotechniques .
on this last point , be can the hope , the government am to to to new the bill of bill C - 80 on the food .
of the groups of interest and that of many scientific of the Department of the Health the are contrary to this that the cabinet the empare of the power of the Minister of the Health of protect the Canadians , because this is the duty .
I hope that this bill of bill will reformulé for the better .
we had hoped study the question for many more of p.m. to the Committee before that the bill of bill it not must bill .
however , that not the is not product and this is now of the history former .
we welcome the senators of in opposite to support their own recommendation and to clamour a review comprehensive of the Act Canadian on the protection of the environment by our Committee the more earlier possible .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
her the hon. Senator Spivak would - it of answer to a question ?
the Senator Spivak :
yes .
the Senator Hays :
the motion original of the hon. Senator offences the government to take some measures .
we have agreed that it be amended for that be written rather a study complete by the Committee that the hon. Senator behind .
is - this that a something which the Committee has discussed ?
in of other words , normally , a work of this nature just generally of the Committee to the on of his discussions and of the wish of about a study special .
is - this the case in the here ?
the Senator Spivak :
not , as the hon. Senator Hays the knows very well .
that the Senator to a legislation agreed lines by the Committee during the review of the Act Canadian on the protection of the environment .
if the Senate wish refer the question to the Committee , I think that the Committee will to the question and see the he can folder this study in the for .
he is question of about a review .
the last has took five years .
this is in service of that that I pretend that our Committee should about this review rather that a Committee of the other place who , as the honourable senators the know , would many of other things to study before that that not we parvienne .
the Senator Hays :
honourable senators , I know that be not had not discussed of the motion to the Committee .
is - this that the Senator Spivak could raise the question to the Committee Whole and we say the he to make the study or not ?
the Senator Spivak :
he appropriate can - be that someone a adjourned the debate .
( on the motion of the Senator Taylor , the debate is adjourned . )
the business of the Senate
use to the Rules
the hon. Eymard G . Corbin :
the intention is behind this expression .
I wish to quote here the Prime paragraph of the comment 485 of the sixth edition of the 286 Parliamentary of Beauchesne :
the use of long not parliamentarians can be pressing to the House by the chairman or by not any what member .
the member who in at the initiative must point the Rules and not raise a question of privilege .
in this who with this that I consider as a expression not Parliamentary , I like me aside here the right of to the that record and of to on this case to the next Senate of the Senate .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , the Senator Corbin ask , in fact , to this that a use to the Rules be deferred .
as we the know , the Rules to that when be has to point the Rules , be the it to the first opportunity .
this is this that the Senator has fact today today .
is - this of agreed for that he continue tomorrow , a time that he will read the text ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator Cools :
not .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the Senator Cools not is not of agreed .
the Senator Corbin :
the human who has said " not " not the has not fact to from of the Chair .
the Hon. the Speaker :
he not there has not agreed for that the study of the motion be have to tomorrow .
the Senator Corbin :
your Hon. , the of that the comment for that " the use of long not parliamentarians can be pressing to the House by the Speaker or by not any what member " , then - I propose that you true on you of to a decision in this case ?
the Hon. the Speaker :
the use to the Rules is valid .
a hon. Senator me has asked of to the text and of determine if the rules have was enfreintes .
I me commitment to the to .
Energy , environment and resources natural
Authorized to the Committee of study of the questions related to the mandate
the hon. Mira Spivak , pursuant to the notice 24 November 99 , move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the energy , of the environment and of the resources natural , in Conformity with the section 86 ( 1 ) elite ) of the Rules , be authorized to study the questions who could time occasionally the Procedural to the energy , to the environment and to the resources natural in General ; and
that the Committee it report to the Senate to the more later 31 March 2000 .
the Hon. the Speaker :
you pleasure - he , honourable senators , of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
Authorized to the Committee of Services of the staff and of the adjourn - Adjourned of the debate
the hon. Mira Spivak , pursuant to the notice 24 November 99 , move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the energy , of the environment and of the resources natural be authorized to clerical the services of counsel , technical , employees of office or other elements necessary for to the bills of bill , the substance of bills of bill and the forecasts budget who him have was referred ; and
that the Committee be authorized to the adjourn to across the Canada and to the abroad to the for of such reviews .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , you pleasure - he of adopt the motion ?
( on the motion of the Senator Hays , the debate is adjourned . )
Authorized to the Committee of to the Electronic of his deliberations by the media electronic
the hon. Mira Spivak , pursuant to the notice 24 November 99 , move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the energy , of the environment and of the resources natural be authorized to to the with of his deliberations public by the media of information electronic , in disruption the least possible his business .
the Hon. the Speaker :
you pleasure - he , honourable senators , of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
( the Senate the adjourned to 14 p.m. tomorrow . )
debates of the Senate ( Hansard )
wondering Session , Session st ,
volume 6,401 , Issue 15
the Thursday 2 December 99
the hon. Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker
table of the Contents
' ' '
the Day international of the people disabilities
the Francophonie
the Day national of commémoration
the tenth anniversary of the tragedy one to the École Polytechnique
the Treaty international prevented the mines land
second anniversary
the quarantième meeting Annual held to Quebec
the environment
the Manitoba - Position dérivation of the waters of the Lake Devil in Dakota of the North
Affairs routine
bill of bill on the snitch in the service public
first Reading
section Canadian of the Church morave of America
the Group Parliamentary Canada - States - United
Tabled of the report of the quarantième meeting Annual held to Quebec
fisheries
notice of motion Motion the Committee to study of the questions provisions to the mandate
notice of motion Motion the Committee to Services of the staff
notice of motion Motion the Committee to to the Electronic of his deliberations by of the means electronic
the Estimates of the Estimates for 99 - 2000
Presented and Appendix in as of the Report of the Committee of the Finance national on the Estimates Supplementary of the Estimates ( A )
PERIOD PERIOD question
the transport and the Communications
the operation of search of Inter - Canadian - Position possible of a study by the Committee Senate
the transport
the v. of the operations of the company air Inter - Canadian - - consequences of the ascertain took in under of the section 47 of the Act on the transport to the Canada
the Affairs Indian
the Nova - Nova - - attempts of suicide in the contingency of Membertou - Request of measures concrete and proactive for help the communities aboriginal
the Nova - Nova - - attempts of suicide in the contingency of Membertou - Position ask of the leaders of the a of meet the Minister
the health
the transfers of funds to the provinces
the Finance
the report of the Auditor General - - effectiveness of the planning budget to long term
response Senate to a question orale
the Affairs foreign
the increase of the Estimates of would in the Estimates Supplementary of the Estimates ( A ) - Position possible of open of new celebrating
order DAY THE
the speech of the Throne
motion of Adopted of the Adresse in response - Continued of the debate
bill of bill admissibility the taken of some decisions Medical
second Reading - Continued of the debate
bill of bill on the perquisitions and the saisies international
second Reading - Adjourned of the debate
privileges , Rules and procedure
third report of the Committee - Withdrawn of the section
the freedom religious in China in report with the pactes international of the Nations Nations
inquiry - Continued of the debate
the Estimates of the Estimates of 99 - 2000
notice of motion to Authorized to the Committee of the Finance national to study the Budgets of the Estimates - Adjourned of the debate
motion of amendment
Finance national
Authorized to the Committee of according his deliberations by of the means electronic
Authorized to the Committee of Services of the staff
adjournment
the SENATE
the Thursday 2 December 99
the Senate is met to 14 p.m. , the Speaker the to the Chair .
prayers .
the Day international of the people disabilities
the hon. M. Robertson :
honourable senators , tomorrow , the 3 December , will place the Day international of the people disabilities .
the Canadians the joindront to of the million of people in the world for celebrate the progress made in the matter world with the people disabilities .
the Senate of the Canada there at .
all the Canadians , but particularly the Canadians disabilities , rely on we for promote their vision of a society where the equality of the opportunity for all would a reality .
the senators are , well course , all to fact supportive to this vision , and today today represents a other not of more to the realizing of this vision .
the senators the remember without doubt that in 1998 , we we are " to develop a strategy to to improve the access to the Senate of the Canadians disabilities and to their to of participate more to the Affairs of the Senate .
that includes the visitors , the Canadians their of the information on the Senate , the participation to the business of the committees , the employees of the Senate and the honourable senators of this House who are disabilities .
we have deliberation for a approach to three followed : a guide of the Senator on the disability , a plan of action and of the sittings of training and of education .
the " Guide of the Senator on the disability " is a document of as to the use of we all ; he give of the information and of the advice on the way of answer to the questions that the an some Canadians to the about of various déficiences .
this is also a guide practice who confirms our role drives in the research of the equality for all and of the changes to to to the level community .
he is of a Reading quick and I the déposerai to the Senate the week next .
I attention to the senators that this guide will also available on the Intranet of the Senate to of in to the Reading with assistance technologique .
the text paraîtra soon in braille .
the second track includes a plan of action in s of disability , who the which realistic and give of the results mesurables .
some of our colleagues and officials to the Senate have by of develop this plan , encadrés by a team of experts of the condition of the disabilities .
the questions are complex and the plan will relatively comprehensive , in this that he will of the information , every of the situation of the employment , of the assistance technical , of the facilities and of the security .
this document in is to the first cycles of the development .
the plan of action of the Senate of the Canada not face not our environment , or of manner tangible , or of the day to the next , but he could , in time timely , serve of example to the other representations perspective .
I am impatiente of me join to the Senator Carstairs for you to this plan of action in February 2000 .
the third track of our strategy relates on the conduct of sittings of training and of education to the condition of the disabilities , includes a Matter of information on the questions of appropriate catch , a list of the major for of this community and of the information on the prospects and the obstacles in the next millennium .
the document explicatif will also prepared in February 2000 .
honourable senators , is how we can give to the together of the Canadians the possible of participate fully to the business of the Senate .
he not is that fair that , in this there of the Day international of the people disabilities , we renouvelions our commitment to the regard of the integration and of the equality for all .
the hon. Sharon Carstairs :
honourable senators , the Senator Robertson the is montrée very generous to my place today today , in this there of the Day international of the people disabilities .
, various occasions , it has spoke to the first human of the pluriel .
honourable senators , he must understand that this is to the Senator Brenda Robertson that we must this action .
I have only in to the production of the document who you will release the week next and to the development of the plan of action that you seen more later .
of other people important have in to this action ; they are weakened to the gallery North .
if they are weakened to the gallery North , honourable senators , this is because that this gallery is now accessible to the people disabilities .
are attendance to this tribuneM. Skip Brooks , Mr. Lawrence Euteneier , Mr. Jim Turner , Ms producer Fleury - Morena , Ms Pina DiFranco and Ms Julie Richer .
are members Ms Marie Trudeau , Ms Bernette Quade and é Clairoux .
I thank her the Senator Robertson of open the seaway to this initiative .
the Francophonie
the hon. Jean - Robert Gauthier :
honourable senators , I about often of the Francophonie international .
also , several people me have asked this that was the Francophonie .
that me remind a experience , he there has few years fellow , then that I have had the happy of meet Valéry Giscard De Estaing , the former chairman of the France .
I was with of my colleague , the hon. Senator De De .
I have asked the question Mr. Giscard of Estaing , to know this that represented the Francophonie .
he me has answered : " said is the France ! "
I have including that he there had a misunderstanding , because that for I , the Francophonie , this not is not the France , this is many more that that .
then I have them and found the definition that is :
the Francophonie is of first the community of the Peoples who , to of the degrees various , speak or are the French in their life national or in their relations international .
but it is also a together of organizations and of associations , government or not government , incurred in of the sectors of activities and of the areas of interest common to the members of the community French .
since the changeover of the member of the Francophonie , who Subcommittee the leaders of state and of government of the country to the French in sharing , the Francophonie is become a place of dialogue policy and of trade who there to the mobilisation of the resources necessary to the activities of the cooperation of the Peoples .
honourable senators , I believe that this definition is exactly .
the Day national of commémoration
the tenth anniversary of the tragedy one to the École Polytechnique
the hon. Catherine S . Callbeck :
honourable senators , the 6 December 99 in the 10e anniversary of the tragedy one to the École Polytechnique of Montreal .
the 6 December , he there has 10 years , a man armé of a fusil has " in the school and killed 14 women simply because that they were of the women .
this event is a point cruel to all the Canadians of the fact that the violence made to the women is a problem by too original .
this tragedy we has forced to take conscience of the importance of this problem and has considerations our efforts in view of to end to the violence made to the women .
the Canadians have acted in being the 6 December the Day national of commémoration and of action against the violence made to the women .
, this , each year , the Canadians the remember and will tribute not only to the 14 women who are 116 this day of 1989 , but also to the women who live all the days under the threat of the violence and to those who have was victims of actions of violence délibérés .
be has also organized of the events as the Campagne of the rubans counterparts , who encourage the men to put a boots white and to the Services to not never make of actions of violence against the women or to close the be or to remain nothing on this such of actions .
the Council Advisory of the situation of the woman of the Island - Edward - Prince - Edward has ' on at a Campagne of the rubans violets who famous the eighteenth anniversary this year .
in the framework of this campaign , be distribue about 8 . rubans violets and of the cartes to the people of the Island .
this program contributes to awareness more the public to the violence to the regard of the women and of the children .
the government federal and the governments provincial to the Canada have also took of the measures recent .
the Declaration of Iqaluit , proclaimed elongated , the 6 December 1998 , in all the provinces and all the territories of a across to the other of the country , reflects the determination of the governments to to end to the violence against the women .
this are that of the measures positive , but he rest still many to to .
this year , the 6 December , I hope that we take all the time not only of remind the remember of all the women victims of violence , but of consider to of the measures concrete to take for avoid the violence against the women .
the Treaty international prevented the mines land
second anniversary
the hon. Douglas Roche :
honourable senators , this is today today the second anniversary of the Treaty international prevented the mines land .
the treaty of 1997 prevented the use , the production , the Destruction and the transfer of the mines land Anti has was ratified by 89 country and signed by 136 .
in September 1998 , 40 country had ratified the treaty , of so that the treaty is became bill international the 1 March 99 .
the treaty is not only of a commitment to been the world of the mines land , but is the result of the any of objectives humanitarian of the on of the government Canadian and of the Minister of the Affairs foreign , Mr. Axworthy .
we should also one the work of Mines Diversity Canada and of other agencies animés of the same ideas who continuing their efforts to of build a culture of the peace .
the Canada must maintain his efforts for build a culture of the peace and for ensure a world fair and without danger for the children of the world who , too often , are the innocence victims of the effects horribles of the War , also well for that after the conflict .
the Group Parliamentary Canada - States - United
the quarantième meeting Annual held to Quebec
the hon. Jerahmiel S . Grafstein :
honourable senators , in quality of Chairman of the delegation Canadian , I presenting more later today today the report of the quarantième meeting Annual of the Group Parliamentary Canada - States - United , who has had place to Quebec of the 20 to the 24 May 99 .
in they this year the meeting to Quebec , we have followed the trend established to the opportunity of a other meeting to had place to the Canada he there has two years to the Forteresse of Louisbourg to the Cape - Cape and to known the apogée to the Room of the Confederation to Charlottetown , in the Island - Edward - Prince - Edward .
in quality of Chairman of the delegation , I to that all in drafts with our colleagues American , we their hear better understand the community Canadian and that we their gifted a lesson concrete of history Canadian .
we have had of the trade open and front on the our of problems who paradoxes our relations bilateral .
we not must never forget that , well that the factors of friction commercial between our two country be instantanément relevés by the media , 97p. per of our trade bilateral the along of way peaceful , effective and effective for our two country .
these links of work close with our colleagues of the Congress of the States - United we help to solve the problems who where sometimes to this place .
a of these problems , and not the less , is the recent decision of the executive American of repudiate the date of into in effect of the section 110 of the Act on the Immigration and the naturalisation of the States - United , be a proposal in under of which will required a visa for enter to the States - United .
the questions that we have raised to the opportunity des38e , 39e and 40e meetings annual of our group have has the Presented of two bills of bill of interest private to the Congress .
honourable senators , be has " a great attention to the embouteillages woefully to the states frontaliers , who are account to the increase fulgurante and growing of the trade to the over of the five past years and of the chevauchements of jurisdiction who there apparaissent .
the chairmen and of the members have recently in to Washington to a conference of the Can - Am Border Trade Alliance .
I will to to the Senate a report on this meeting to the over of the next days .
honourable senators , I like a time of more you encourage all to read the abrégé of the questions who the is in the report who will tabled a little more later , to become members of this association and to work actively with we in view of increase our relations with our colleagues American for a future beneficial for our two country .
the questions who we closer are more many that those who we divisent .
yet , our relations trade require a we Increase and a as reasonable .
let - I of thank my Chairman Canadian , Joe Comuzzi , of the other place , our responsible of the employees , Carol Chafe , our chairmen American , the sénateurFrank Murkowski of the Alaska and the representative Amo Houghton of the state of New York , their staff and all the honourable senators for their wonderful cooperation in the interest of our two great country .
we comptons well that the Senate plays a role active in all these business during of future meetings .
the environment
the Manitoba - Position dérivation of the waters of the Lake Devil in Dakota of the North
the hon. Janis Johnson :
honourable senators , I like draw your attention on the events who the produced to the Manitoba to the about of the bill of dérivation of the waters of the Lake Devil .
this is a behalf effrayant for a bill of be hydraulique effrayant .
the state of the Dakota of the North for mud the water in too of the Lake Devil in the saying Red .
as you the know can - be , the saying Red facing the border for enter to the Manitoba and just the look in the Lake Winnipeg .
the saying Red is the habitat of someone 50 cash of poissons of water Freshwater and the biologistes it that it is the second seaway of water the more rich to the Canada after the River St. - Lawrence .
, because of the problems of flood to the Lake Devil , the state of the Dakota of the North to creuser a factual of drainage of three miles of long who resulting in the saying Red .
the Lake Devil is strongly salin and he contains of the products chemical toxins .
something more important , be there ' of the poissons extremely agressifs and without potential commercial who are foreign to the waters Canadian .
these cash of poissons are to the pool hydrographique of the Gulf of the Mexico .
the saying Red , as all the rivers of the Manitoba , the to in the pool hydrographique of the Arctic .
these affected hydrographiques are divided by a up natural and their cash respective are demeurées separated since 10 . years .
the introduction of the poissons of the Lake Devil in the saying Red would also risquée that the introduction of the peace in Australia .
in as that Senator of the Manitoba , as of a ground riverain of the Lake Winnipeg and member of the group of monitoring of the Lake Winnipeg , I can you ensure that that will become a bill very controversial .
the Lake Winnipeg fact already opposite to of serious threats .
the régulation of the Lake to of the for hydroélectriques contributes to the floods and to the erosion of the berges .
the levels of water artificiellement high have virtually destroyed the marais of the Lake Netley , we are .
this bill could become the clou in the cercueil of the a of our more great lakes Canadian .
I am pleased of see that the government federal the interest finally to the question .
in a statement that he has made the months last , he has said that he not have no diversion who could may a threat for the waters Canadian .
however , the Prime Minister Gary Doer of the Manitoba has visited recently the site proposed and he has announced to the return that the Dakota of the North continued deal the bill in priority , for begin the construction as the months of October next .
Affairs routine
bill of bill on the snitch in the service public
first Reading
the hon. ë A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) its the bill of bill S - 13 , Act to to promote the prevention of the conduites reprehensible in the service public in by a framework for the education in this who has with to the practices ensure to the Ethics in community of work , the treatment of the allegations of conduites reprehensible and the protection of the dénonciateurs .
( the bill of bill is read a first time . )
the Hon. the Speaker :
when read - we this bill of bill a second time ?
( on the motion of the Senator Kinsella , the second Reading of the bill of bill is placed to the order of the day of the next Senate . )
section Canadian of the Church morave of America
bill of bill private amend the bill establish in human moral - First Reading
the hon. Nicholas W . Taylor its the Bill bill S - 14 , Act amend the bill establish in human moral the Council of the former of the section Canadian of the Church morave of America .
( the bill of bill is read a first time . )
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when read - we this bill of bill a second time ?
( on the motion of the Senator Taylor , the second Reading of the bill of bill is placed to the order of the day of the mardi7 December 99 . )
the Group Parliamentary Canada - States - United
Tabled of the report of the quarantième meeting Annual held to Quebec
the hon. Jerahmiel S . Grafstein :
honourable senators , I have the honour of table , in the two languages official , the report of the quarantième meeting Annual of the Group Parliamentary Canada - States - United who the is held to Quebec , of the 20 to the 24 May 99 .
notice of motion Motion the Committee to study of the questions provisions to the mandate
the hon. Gerald J . Comeau :
honourable senators , I give notice that Tuesday next , the 7 December 99 , I move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the fisheries be authorized to study , to of to a report on of the questions provisions to the industry of the fisheries ;
that the Committee it report to the more later Honourable December 2000 ; and
that the Committee be authorized , notwithstanding the practices considered , to table the report with of the Greffier of the Senate if the Senate not seat not , and that obedience report be being have was tabled to the Senate .
notice of motion Motion the Committee to Services of the staff
the hon. Gerald J . Comeau :
honourable senators , I give notice that Tuesday next , the 7 December 99 , I move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the fisheries be authorized to clerical the services of counsel , technical , employees of office or other elements necessary for to the bills of bill , the substance of bills of bill and the forecasts budget who him have was referred .
notice of motion Motion the Committee to to the Electronic of his deliberations by of the means electronic
the hon. Gerald J . Comeau :
honourable senators , I give notice that Tuesday next , the 7 December 99 , I move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the fisheries be authorized to to the with of his deliberations public by the media of information electronic , in disruption the least possible his business .
the Estimates of the Estimates for 99 - 2000
Presented and Appendix in as of the Report of the Committee of the Finance national on the Estimates Supplementary of the Estimates ( A )
leave to was granted of to to the Presented of reports of committees Standing or special :
the hon. Lowell Murray :
honourable senators , I have the honour of to the second report of the Committee Senate Standing of the Finance national who relates on the Estimates Supplementary of the Estimates ( A ) for 99 - 2000 .
I ask that the report be printed in as to the Journals of the Senate of today today .
the Hon. the Speaker :
is - this of agreed , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when consideration - we this report ?
( on the motion of the Senator Murray , the study of the report is placed to the order of the day of the next Senate . )
PERIOD PERIOD question
the transport and the Communications
the operation of search of Inter - Canadian - Position possible of a study by the Committee Senate
the hon. ë A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , my question the is to the chairman of the Committee Senate Standing of the transport and of the Communications .
if yes , that has he said regarding the situation financial of his company ?
if , have - you the intention of hear the testimony Mr. Myhill ?
the hon. Lise Bacon :
honourable senators , the Committee not has not still fact report because he not has not debated his business .
we will sit the week next and when the report will debated , I the presenting to this House .
the Senator Kinsella :
your Committee , as the Committee of the other place , has he the intention of study this situation very serious or the is - he of a case day of the Committee ?
the Senator Bacon :
honourable senators , our Committee has received a order of referred and the mandate of this House is respected by the Committee .
this is this that we do in this time and when we will debated , we déposerons the report .
the transport
the v. of the operations of the company air Inter - Canadian - - consequences of the ascertain took in under of the section 47 of the Act on the transport to the Canada
the hon. ë A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I have a question supplementary of more for the Leader of the government to the Senate .
is a a of the second page of this letter :
he not fact no doubt that Inter - Canadian is the victim of political and of measures conçues for serve the interests of other stakeholders of the sector , which several have advantage to this that Inter - Canadian disparaisse .
we we are to this that the shareholders of Inter - Canadian insistent for that we ask to our lawyer of to the situation in detail and of take all the measures judicial and other to our clause for rectify the situation .
what is the Position of the government to the regard of his responsibility for the difficulty that the chairman of Inter - Canadian said internalize by on of the events who have followed the ascertain took to the words of the section 47 of the Act on the transport to the Canada ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
I thank the hon. Senator of his question .
I not have not had the opportunity of study carefully the letter of the chairman of Inter - Canadian or his statement regarding the situation of his company .
the he think have a ground for administers of the from against the government of the Canada , I am sure that he the will .
I know the magnitude of the difficulties financial that Inter - Canadian having now or éprouvait before that he be question of approach to the section 47 .
I not know not if these difficulties financial older of before this use or if they are account to of other factors their to the and of this company .
the responsibility of the government of the Canada has was stated clear by the Minister of the Transport when he has described the principle that which the service to the small communities Canadian is sufficient and continue of be sufficient .
he is difficult of say if this responsibility the over to the fate of a company particular in of the circumstances data .
the government and the Minister have clear established the principles of their action .
I not will not the repeat , because I am sure that the hon. Senator knows all the principles who guideront the action of the government .
the Affairs Indian
the Nova - Nova - - attempts of suicide in the contingency of Membertou - Request of measures concrete and proactive for help the communities aboriginal
the hon. Donald H . Oliver :
honourable senators , my question the is to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
the week last , to Sydney , in Nova - Nova , four children , seniors of 9 to 13 years , are gone in the forest in their contingency , profoundly to to crudely end to their days .
two boys of the a Membertou , third contingency Mi' kmaq in importance of the province , have really tried of the those the life in the for to a tree - a with a chord to linge and the other with a chord .
the police and the other children have succeeded to cut the quartets to time .
of the communities are in crisis across to the Canada .
of the children aboriginal , of the children Canadians the tuent .
that a study In in 1997 to the University of Toronto , the rate annual of the suicides in the aboriginal seniors of 15 to 24 years is of about 110 for per . people - in comparison of 25 suicides for per . people in the people of the even group of age in the rest of the public .
Tuesday , the board and the Leader of the a Membertou have imploré the Department of the Affairs Indian of the help in finançant properly of the programs of counselling for to the parents and to the children aboriginal .
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I am to the aware of the situation general to which the Senator has fact referring .
I not am however not to the aware of the details precise of the incidents in question .
what that he in be , the challenge that we an of the communities as Membertou , and he there has of the communities of this such a little across in the country , is real and there since of the decades , even since of the centuries .
the government of the Canada attempts of met this challenge of a way constructive , to the way of the many programs available by the Department .
I am course that the Minister in question will seriously the requests made by the representatives of Membertou .
in fact , I hope me speak with him and with few - each of the representatives of this community , to the over of the next days .
the Nova - Nova - - attempts of suicide in the contingency of Membertou - Position ask of the leaders of the a of meet the Minister
the hon. Donald H . Oliver :
honourable senators , he is interesting that the Leader of the government has spoke of the Minister of the Affairs Indian and of the North Canadian , Mr. Robert Nault , because , as he the knows , the board and the Leader of the a Membertou have asked to meet directly the Minister .
the Minister is - he prepared to access to this request ?
if yes , when ?
in the few weeks to come ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I not have learned that few minutes before of come to the Senate that a meeting had was demandée .
I will to my possible for facilitate the things .
in last resort , the decision is to the Minister him - even , but I know that he want to that of the circumstances who around this ask and that he can there access as that possible .
the health
the transfers of funds to the provinces
the hon. Jean - Claude Rivest :
honourable senators , I like ask to the Minister the he has the intention of awareness his colleagues of the Council of the ministers to a of the problems Smokers of all the regions to the Canada , to know the funding of the services of health , of the services social and of the education ?
if be reads the newspapers or if be following the situation in the hospitals of each of the provinces of the Canada , be note that the governments of the provinces are to the taken with of the difficulties major of under - funding .
this lack of resources financial for support the quality of the care of to little close all the institutions health to the country brings a Announced of staff and of Mothballed , a encombrement of the wards of emergency , a reduction of the resources and of the staff succeeds with of the people seniors , and cetera .
the government federal has and has of surplus challenges .
, the place of to on at of the bills who this a sure interest , as by example the scholarships of the millennium in the field of the education or , recently , a program for combat the diabetes , the Minister not think he not that he would time that the government Canadian implementation a part extremely important of his surplus to a transfer to the governments of the provinces ?
in more of to the good operating of our regime federal and the full get of services to the together of the public , this transfer of the surplus would to these governments of assume of a way décente their responsibilities Constitutional in the field of the health , of the services social and of the education .
these needs are the basic of the good operating of our society .
is - this that he not would not time that the government of the Canada from this ask burning who him is material by the together of the regions Canadian ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
the challenges are of size in part to because of a increase considerable of the ask , who with to a sure number of factors , which the less not is not the démographie .
, the over of the next decade , the factors demographic challenging always a serious problem .
the government federal has well responded in the budget of 99 , but I not songerais not a only moment to say to the Senator that he not there has not of great challenges who we expect .
the field of the health will can - be well , where the challenges will the more redoutables for the government federal and the provinces to the over of the 10 next years .
the Senator Rivest :
the government of the Canada , in more of the other priorities that he can clerical in the use of these surplus , not could - he not do , of a way trade and direct , a transfer significant of funds to the governments of the provinces to that they can to opposite to the requirements extremely leadership of the field of the health ?
you have was Minister of the Affairs Social .
you But very well that without of the funds deprive , who not could from that of the government Canadian , you were their of answer to the needs pressants of the field of the health .
a assistance meaningful and substantial of the government Canadian will to the governments of the provinces of satisfy these needs .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I the have said already , since a year about , the government has took of the measures for restore of important are of the funding paid to the provinces .
, my humble notice however , he not enough not of increase the funding .
that equivalent to we without has a ask illimitée .
I believe that he will abolish the funding because the ask continues of increase and that he will also who the ability of to to the point of the approaches innovative as to the Benefit of the care of health and find of the solutions rector to this regard .
a example of the commitment of the this government is the new funding substantial of the research in health .
the government has fact evidence of a commitment remarkable .
I have well confidence that he continue of the to to legislation that we exhausting .
the hon. Roch Bolduc :
honourable senators , I not like not continue by this debate .
of a on , the government hides of the funds in the research medical and , of other on , the next , he announcement the creation of a program for the dystrophie musculaire and , the surlendemain , a other program for a other illness .
the government federal , this by , its the priorities of the care of health .
this not is not the role .
to that to the backs of the responsibilities of the provinces is unacceptable !
you not be not convince our people that this solution is acceptable .
the government federal , in amount , the ingère in the management of the care of health .
he its that such service is the more pressing and not not a other .
this not is not reasonable .
the government federal has of the things more important to to to a level more high .
the role is of there the resources to the country .
he has of great roles to play in the policy international , the policy Monetary , and cetera .
the public not the supportera not .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , the Senator has well reason .
the Benefit of the care of health has was and will without doubt a responsibility provincial .
however , this would a mistake of say that the government federal not has of other role to play that , of sign a cheque .
in fact , the Act Canadian on the health is probably the legislation legislative the more influential of all the country in s of care of health .
the government federal has a role to play .
he not is not to the first lines of the Benefit of the care , because this role is to the provinces , I in as .
this is why the funding by the government federal of the research and some new initiatives of the such will useful ; they will to the provinces of met the challenges on this plan .
the Senator Bolduc :
honourable senators , I have the sense that the officials federal of the Department of the Health the say that the " corner " to Toronto , to Vancouver and to Quebec not are not that ; be will their say : where is - this that that press ?
this was fair a appéritif .
the Finance
the report of the Auditor General - - effectiveness of the planning budget to long term
the hon. Roch Bolduc :
as he the has fact in the past , the Auditor General has said of new to the Parliament that a year of planning of two to five years , this is well too short for power to that of the consequences to long term of the choice budget that we do , including in a situation where the public is , with all the impact that that there .
honourable senators , that not with not the institution of objectives or the it of these the .
he the is of know the consequences to long term of the decisions of the government .
even the Committee of the accountable public of the other place has now idea to the need of projections to more long term .
however , the government continues of say that in we as of the information to long term , he minerait the importance and the emergency of the deal to the problems immédiats .
honourable senators , the Leader of the government could - he explain why the Auditor General has wrong when he said that this not is that in songeant to the consequences to more long term that we will fully in legislation of assessment the emergency of our situation budget ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , the planning not has not that a only subject , and different periods of planning suitable to different must .
I then say without fear of me wrong that in almost all the departments , the planning to long term relates on of the periods of five years , of 10 years , even more .
, the for of the process budget , the Minister of the Finance has said that this was a approach prudent , but appropriate , that of the limit to a graduate of two years for determine of the requirements budget and of the projections of revenues only for a year given .
that not to not say that the government not the interest not to the planning to more long term and that he not the practice not .
the Senator Bolduc :
honourable senators , the attitude of the Auditor General me believe reasonable .
I am of agreed when the Minister said that on a basic of budgétisation of two years , that can be reasonable .
I can understand that .
the Auditor General said that the government should to to the opposite of the public of the studies to more long term .
be has known that , by example , in the field of the Pension , where be has of of the Pension to the people all of on .
be has of of the Pension to the people pendant25 years then , all of a the , be the is awakened .
Mr. . Paul Martin has examined the question and has found that that not had more of good sense , that he was increase the premiums of 73p. per of here three years , if this would the bankrupt of this plan .
that not is not course .
the Auditor General the said , and I am of agreed , that he would we to of the statisques to long term .
the example of the Pension is the more is example that be can find .
be the is view that this was easy of give of the Pension to the people who not had not contributed .
now , be ask to the generation next of pay for these Pension .
and this generation receive probably of the profits who will lower to those of their parents .
he not is not fair that my children me pay a pension then that the their will less when they will my age .
even the increase of 73p. per , of here four years , not sufficient not for with the problem .
he must look the obvious to long term .
the government should the to a duty of apply a such rule .
this is a rule of wisdom for a healthy management .
not any what company the fact .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , the Plan of Pension of the Canada fact course the subject of reviews .
he is administered to the time by the government federal and the provinces .
the two levels of government the Subcommittee all the three years s for where the objectives to long term .
I as that , in fonctionnant without plan to long term , be risk of hypothéquer the generations future , who will appelées to pay for the services which take the generation current .
the worse example that I can you give for illustrate that is , of a government who activated of great deficits .
the to of our government is excellent in this field .
is the worse example who example the about of the hon. Senator .
fortunately , the present Minister of the Finance and the present government have corrected the situation .
I know that the hon. Senator the pleased of their success .
response Senate to a question orale
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
I have the response Senate to a question that the honorablesénateur Stratton has raised the 24 November 99 to the about of the Estimates of would in the Estimates Supplementary of the Estimates ( A ) and of the possible of open of new celebrating .
the Affairs foreign
the increase of the Estimates of would in the Estimates Supplementary of the Estimates ( A ) - Position possible of open of new celebrating
( response to the question raised by the hon. Terry Stratton 24 November 99 )
in response to the question who was on the addition proposed of 43 875 400 $ to the Authorized of appropriation current of 87 690 . $ of the Department of the Affairs foreign and of the Trade international ( MAECI ) by the through of the Estimates Main of the Estimates of 99 - 2000 , he must attention that the budget of the capital of the MAECI covers the Estimates not only for the property liabilities , but also for of other long punishment and incorporels .
on the 131 565 . $ proposed , about 68 million of $ are some for the Estimates for property liabilities .
the rest will a between the maintenance of the system world of telecommunications and the systems computer of management of the information , the Purchase of systems and of equipment of security , the Purchase of vehicle in the missions to the abroad , the business of one and of maintenance of the property and the Purchase of day and sections of ameublement .
in this who with the bills their to of the property , the bill realized to Berlin not represents that 26,2 million of this total in 99 - 2000 .
the rest of the funds approved for the funding of the capital of Berlin will spent for the million 2000 - 2001 to 03 - 2004 .
the list of the major Estimates in capital who are corridors to of the bills their to of the property in 99 - 2000 is introduced in the picture who following .
the levels of Estimates diffèrent of those made the year last in the Rapports 99 - 2000 on the bills and the priorities of the MAECI for various reasons : expectations for obtain the for local of construction , difficulties Sectoral by the entrepreneur to find of the with - of implement and of the into and more of time that provided spent to the step of conception of some bills .
major bills of capital
Estimates scheduled for 99 - 2000 ( million $ )
Beijing China ( Achat of a complex diplomatic )
Berlin , Germany ( Construction of a chancellerie )
Berlin , Germany ( Construction of a residence official )
the Cairo , Egypt ( Construction of a chancellerie )
Caracas , Venezuela ( Achat of a chancellerie )
Geneva , Switzerland ( Construction of a chancellerie )
Kingston , Jamaïque ( Construction of a chancellerie )
Nairobi , Kenya ( Construction of a chancellerie )
new Delhi , India ( Construction of housing for the staff )
Tokyo , Japan ( Construction of housing for the staff )
Warsaw , Poland ( Agrandissement / renovate of the chancellerie )
Seoul , Korea ( Déménagement of the chancellerie )
order DAY THE
the speech of the Throne
motion of Adopted of the Adresse in response - Continued of the debate
the order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Jeffrey , seconded by the hon. Senator Furey , Honourable to the Adopted of a Adresse to His Excellency the Gouverneure general in response to the speech that her has by during of the openness of the second session of the 30 - sixth Parliament . - (
6e day of the resuming of the debate )
the hon. Norman K . Atkins :
you in arriverez can - be to goûter so the operating of this place that you me reconsidered your first comments regarding the office of your time to the Senate .
I have loved the response that the Leader of the government has made to the question that I him have raised yesterday , to know that he essaierait of visit the House Vimy before the resuming of the business of the Senate , after the break of ë .
I would delighted of the there with .
Senator Hays , you have fact many of things in your life public and to the Senate .
he was all to fact natural that you Senate guest to assume the duties of Leader Deputy to this place .
this is became a tradition .
your predecessor has was chairman of the Party Liberal , him also .
your contribution positive to the business of the committees is also well known .
your experience you will can - be to understand that he would course of consider the study of a more great number of bills of bill in Committee Whole .
personally , I hope that you be continue of be active to the within of the Committee Senate of the agriculture , including in this period of crisis who Strike the céréaliculteurs Canadian .
the senators of this side - this indicated the Senator Graham as a Leader effective of the government to the Senate .
he knew that the role was of to in so that the bills of bill be adopted to this place .
however , in the year of his duties , he seemed appreciate the work of the Opposition and recognize the importance .
our role is to debate of the bills of bill and to to to the attention of the government and of the Canadians the are that they an .
the Senator Graham has also recognized that the role of the Senate not was not to approve automatically the work of the House of the Commons .
he is to the Senate of reflect more to the impact of the measures legislation and to the way which they are made , and of listen carefully the arguments of those who are in favour of these measures and of those who the there opposed .
even the he we is came to the opportunity of differ of opinion with him , the Senator Graham has always treaty the Opposition with déférence and considered the role of the Senate respectfully .
this was a opportunity unique of to of the projection and of say to the Canadians to what the government with the Canada the lead to the over of the years to come .
this speech would should establish the reason of be of the government , this that he to to with the power that he Canada .
the years Pearson have was caractérisées by the commitment to the regard of a regime of care of health universal , our centennial and a new flag , this who has contributed to to know more the Canada to the other country of the world .
the " society fair " and the patriation of the Constitution have dismantling the years Trudeau .
this is during the mandate of Joe Clark as Prime Minister that we we are rapprochés the each of the other in as that Canadians , that we have learned to better we understand through to his description of the Canada as a " together of communities " .
this is also to the over of these mandates that the Canada the is with of the manipulation on which the economy based today today : the agreements of free - Exchange and the reform tax , which makes our exports competitive opposite to our partners commercial .
he worth the only of to the governments that we have Government to the Canada to the over of the 50 past years for see to what point the government Chr not has no policy and no vision of future .
the Canadians deserve better that a speech of the Throne not appearing no vision .
will more far .
in this speech , the government the autocongratule without out for the role that he plays in the economy .
, this about , I to me associate to the words of the Leader of the Opposition to the Senate , the Senator Lynch - Lynch .
in the speech in response to the speech of the Throne , he has of to the government of the lessons of history and of economy on the responsible of the crisis financial that facing the Canada - the Liberal of Trudeau - and on those who have looked the basis on which the articulent the solutions - the Conservatives of Mulroney .
for my on , I could back to the speech that I have by during of the debate budget in beginning of year .
I have helpfulness the government for have balanced the budget , but I have also has that he négligeait of many leviers economic .
the Canada not draw not enough of investment foreign , the taxes of all the levels of government are too high , our productivity is if low that it threat our level of life and no objective of reduction of the debt Canadian not has was set .
a sure number of economists are that the dollar Canadian directly also there that 60 cents of here five years .
the pleasant of our " has has any a series of taken of control of businesses Canadian .
that has led the former Prime Minister of the Alberta , Peter Lougheed , to to :
I me concern of the passivité of the governments , of the citizens and of the companies to the regard of the number of iceberg of businesses Canadian important by of the companies U.S. and then , of the loss of taken of decisions to the Canada to the on of the transfer of the seats social of businesses to the States - United .
nothing not is fact , then that the Minister of the Finance continues of up a surplus for the happy .
the speech of the Throne announcement of the cuts of tax , of the cuts that human not has still remarquées , who not performance even not to the surplus Surplus in the pension of insurance - employment .
the kind of the government on the plan economic , the problems stretched to the taxes , to the productivity and to the investment foreign have led Tom De Aquino , the chairman of the Council Canadian of the leaders of businesses , to to :
in fact , we have to Ottawa a government who not includes not the serious of the situation to which our country fact opposite .
for them , the economy the relates well , a number growing of people have a employment , the surplus the investments and the surveys are very supportive to the government .
the people as you and I and well of other who osent ask a change radical and of new ideas are often which as of the alarmistes who not for that their interest staff .
the kind of the government in these areas the country the more in the framework of the debate on the drain of the drain to the Canada .
the Prime Minister believes that this is simply a so and I i that he think that if be not fact nothing , as in the case of well of other questions , the problem disparaîtra of him - even or be not him will not of accountable .
honourable senators , this not is not the point of view of the expert who have attended to our caucus of the was to Calgary , in September .
the representatives of the industry , of the sector private , of groups of reflection and of the world university we have fact on of the serious of the question and of the impact negative of this phenomenon , then that the Canadians trying of be competitive on the market world .
well course , a example governments of this that the Prime Minister believe be a so we is of by John Roth , chairman - steering General of Newbridge Networks .
, the number of the major reasons for which our best professionals they the Canada , he quote the pleasant of the dollar Canadian , the rate of tax marginal the more high to the Canada and the level exaltant of activity commercial to the outside of the Canada .
this is by the through of political financial , rid and economic that a government creates a climate economic encouraged the people to remain to the Canada or to come the there dramatically .
commentant the statements Mr. Roth , the categorized Canadian Peter C . Rosemary has said :
I not believe not that he available say : " I to foutre my compound of the Canada . "
Mr. . Rosemary think rather Mr. Roth to say :
" I not have not the choice . "
the lack of vision of the government , the lack of vigour in the jurisdictional financial and economic , exception made of the measures to to balance the budget on the on of the provinces and of the citizens the more poor of the Canada , are to the origin of this problem .
the much of the government before a reality whose not fact that exacerber the problem .
what is the interest of these benefits for the people who just regularly of a situation of work to a situation of well - be social ?
as Marjorie Doyle , St. John s , Newfoundland - Newfoundland , the has wrote in October :
the speech of the Throne of the week last not the mass not to I .
his letter described excursions the inadaptation of the promise of the speech of the Throne regarding the future of the Internet to the reality of the life in a port of fishing of Newfoundland - Newfoundland or in the Canada rural .
it said :
the vision of a Canada who fact of the high Technology the - of challenges seems fix , even even relation , when it is being to the time where you see a man débarquer on the pier his taken of hareng or of calmar to the assistance of a tool simple .
, legislation that the speech of the Throne advance , adding to the glorification of all the things cybernétiques , that me remind that the gap between the Canada of the class dirigeante and , where of many Canadians live is in fact very great ...
... and the creuse still ...
he not is not possible that the small province independently of Newfoundland - Newfoundland be the only place where the people and the which of life are marginalized , if outright size , by the concept of a Canada who would the king Cyber .
he must well there have not difficulty of Canadians in the regions rural where the space cybernétique seems périphérique .
the day where the speech of the Throne has was by the week last , the road the more fréquentée of the small province independently of Newfoundland - Newfoundland was the move of land battue Work to the jardins which to the back of the community , of the jardins where the men and the women cultive of the plantes roots , a little as the were their from to the beginning duXIXe century , working often on the even small carré of land .
the men were to the fishing in their at , a piège of allure primitive had was put in the étang community , and the husband and the woman who have the forest on durum .
we not can not forget the roots of this country in the Rush current to the Technology .
the promise of increase still the Prestation national for children in the year 2002 not to not say great - something for the poor or the recipients social , who e the provinces increase their taxes of as .
, the least , in this party , we have set a group of work on the poverty , co of way very efficient by the Senator Cohen and the MP conservatrice of the House of the Commons representative the riding of Shefford , Diane St. - Jacques , in company of the Senator Lavoie - Roux .
the Hon. the Speaker :
hon. Senator Atkins , I regret of duty you interrupt , but the 15 minutes who you were allouées have expired .
want - you ask of the time Supplementary for continue ?
the Senator Atkins :
yes .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the leave is - it granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator Atkins :
I you thank , honourable senators .
their recommendations have looked the first basis of the institution of a system of protection of the income family and of a rate of tax reasonable of the income of the special for the Canadians to income low and way .
I for the Leader Deputy of the government to the Senate of not not the be opposed to the ask of the Senator Gustafson who was the held of a debate Special on the question the 3 November last .
this debate has has the suffering related to the crisis of the agriculture and that the absence of a strategy national consistent in view of protect and of improve the situation of the it family .
he not should not be necessary of expect that a crisis the " , as the government the has if often fact , for we to that that the political are déficientes or even inexistantes .
as the Senator Andreychuk the has has of way if amplification to the over of the debate :
the problem , this is that the government federal not includes not that he must to evidence of creativity and attempt of find of new solutions to the crisis of the agriculture in the Western .
... ... ... we are in full crisis .
still a time , the government lack of imagination and the is their of understand the new problems .
the debate that we have given to the Senate has was very useful , but he not would not should be necessary .
the government had a opportunity in however of deal of the crisis in the agriculture in the speech of the Throne , and of establish of new direction and of the benchmarks for the institution of political for the protection of the it family .
all that would could be followed very quickly by the Tabled to the House of the Commons of measures legislation to to adopt these new initiatives .
however , the speech of the Throne not contained nothing , nothing of the all for the regions agricultural .
that say of the sectors which the government has spoke in the speech of the Throne ?
in this who has with to the question military , the speech has began on a their very bode , detailing our troops as of the soldiers of the peace to the over of the war global and in Korea .
be ' , in the body of the text and under the as " Position place of the Canada in the world " , the sentence next , who is probably the more fallacieuse never placed in a speech of the Throne :
the government continue also of ensure to this that the Forces Canadian be in legislation of support the role of the Canada for help to the security in the world and he the efforcera of increase the ability of the Canadians and of the may of help to ensure the peace and the security in of the country foreign .
that just of a government who has record our armada of class World quasiment outlive in annulant the Purchase of helicopters provided by the government precedent and who highlights the life of our soldiers still more in danger in an the Purchase of new helicopters .
that him , he would immediately injected to the least 500 million of $ of more .
he not is more acceptable that the Minister of the Defence unless that the forces Armed will continue to in to more with least .
contrary to this that he said , he not can not dies the budget , because he is too leverage for be restructured .
in a section entitled : " Reforming Canada' s Military " , the Colonel to the retirement Michel Drapeau urge the government to revitaliser the milice and the contingency , to reduce the number of worry of half , to from the duties of the bureaucracy civil of the Department of the Defence of those of the command military , to eliminate the département of the Affairs public of the Defence , and to eyebrows properly our soldiers .
for my on , I conseillerais to the government Liberal of to in implement the findings of the book white of 1994 on the Defence , that he has him - even released .
, all the least , the government should avoid of speak of continue to eyebrows the forces Armed , then that he not has even not began .
certainly , the speech of the Throne about of the need of increase the funding of the research and of the development to the Canada .
I hope only that this funding does to the research fundamental in the universities , in of the areas that the universities they - same feel important .
I believe that the government must go over - beyond of the Fund of the scholarships of the millennium announced by the Minister of the Finance in the budget he there has two years .
I believe that the problem of the debt grew , who an of the thousands of students to the four across of the country , can be resolved with success .
however , he must for that not only Services the resources necessary , but also to evidence of imagination in the development of a program who not only assistance all the students post , but also the encourage to excel in the studies and encourage those who have left prematurely the school to there return for there parfaire their studies .
I there will to the opportunity of my inquiry to the over of the next weeks .
for paraphrasing Rachna Gilmore , who has received recently the price literary of the Governor General , he is important of the with not only of those who marchent the be baissés , but also of those who six the stars and the allow of dream .
this country deserves a government who has a vision of the future who be source of inspiration for the Canadians to the enter of a new century .
we tarred a government who can dream .
of the Senators :
hear !
the hon. Rose - Marie Cool - Losier :
honourable senators , I me is to you today today to of you to on of my reactions to the speech of the Throne by during of the openness of the second session of the 30 - sixth Parliament of the Canada .
my thoughts conservation primarily on three themes : the small boyhood of the Canada , the congés parentaux and the security human , and particularly the security of the children in the country in seaway of development .
... rald ...
all of first , I me am that the priority key of the government the go to the small boyhood .
I quote the speech of the Throne :
no commitment that we take today today not will more important for the prosperity and the well - be to long term of the society Canadian that , of invest our efforts in favour of the very young children .
he responsibility to the government of to to the parents and to the families who taking be of their children a range of measures and of means who support their efforts .
the parents have our need of support and of smooth for to opposite to their responsibility first , who is the of take be of their children .
the well - be includes of the children there several components .
in Prime place , a break parental of 52 weeks will finally to the parents of the with more of their all - grandchildren without duty the give to the Access of a tierce human .
you agree , honourable senators , that give the Access of a very young child to a tierce human respectful many of préparations and of representations for the great majority of the parents .
I can you say , as experience personal , that when my tireless special to the research is manifestation after a break of initiating of six months , that has was very difficult because that the break of initiating is of six months and that the most of the garderies to the children to a year .
he is very difficult of find of the places in " for a period of six months .
of , , the great majority of the parents wish access to more of support who their would of to a better balance opposite to the requests exigeantes of the world of the work present .
the first years of life of a child are déterminantes for his health and the well - be to long term .
honourable senators , the children alive in situation minority to across the Canada deserve a attention particular if we want ensure a development widest for all our children and for their families .
this is why he is very important of was and of know more specifically the needs of the children and of the families of the communities francophones and é of the Canada .
the recognition of the identity and of the realities of the francophones represents therefore a issue majeur for the future of the children and of the young of the communities francophones and é of the Canada .
all the children Canadian have right to the same services and to the same facilités of development .
short , the importance that we pass to the small boyhood today today will to of the thousands of children of enter their life of - in by evidence of confidence , of creativity and of determination .
addition the benefits social weaknesses from to the support of the development of the young children , the House of trade of Vancouver there with of the benefits economic well age .
I quote :
our findings fell that invest in the development of the young children can reduce the problems social , increase the capabilities and produce a good performance economic .
and it in so to the conclusion next :
short , invest in our children is a good policy of interest public .
I for the House of trade of Vancouver of have adopted this Position in conclusion party for the children of the Canada and in defending their interests .
honourable senators , you be surely all of agreed for say , as parents , and as great - parents in the case of some , that the family who éduque his children and subvient to their needs is the better touchstone of the good development of the children .
the education parentale , the acquisition of the Paralympians and the support to the parents and to the families are essential for improve the conditions of life of the children .
is why of the programs of development of the young children must be a part basic of the vision of future of the government .
the third and last point of my statement with the public and the development .
the concepts of development and of security of the child to the Canada diffèrent substantially of this that they are in the country in development .
a environment favourable to the development human , and more am of the child , fact speak two concepts basic : the development human and the security human .
well that separate , the two concepts the internship each .
even the they not are not seldom , together , the security human and the development human are to the double objective of been of the afraid and of been of the need .
the freedom of act of the people can be limited by these two fears , and for the members the more poor and the more vulnerable of the society , the poverty and the insécurité are related in a circle condemned .
for Koreas this circle , he must of the measures for stimulate the development human through to the access to a employment stable , to the education and to the services social .
the absence of these guarantees of security human represents a barrier divide to the development human without regard to the levels of income .
if the people not have not confidence in the power of the society of the protect , they are little enclins to invest in the future .
for build a world who efficiently many of price to the security human , he must begin by the preoccupied of those who in hériteront and act for the protect .
the Convention Current to the rights of the child has dismantling a beginning , a way which the community international could the a of the responsibility who we responsibility all opposite to our children .
he there has few years , a song popular said :
a child , it you décroche a dream
then , honourable senators , let - we of dream .
strongly with I the dream that I have for that a day , be can to to all the children of the planet this that the be offer to our own children and to our grandchildren - children .
( on the motion of the Senator DeWare , to the behalf of the Senator LeBreton , the debate is adjourned . )
bill of bill admissibility the taken of some decisions Medical
second Reading - Continued of the debate
the order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Carstairs , seconded by the hon. Senator pin , Honourable to the second Reading of the bill of bill S - 2 , Act admissibility the taken of decisions Medical legitimate relatively to the treatment of survival and to the treatment of the pain . - (
the hon. Senator Lavoie - Roux )
the hon. Lucie pin :
honourable senators , I rise the speak today today for defend the bill of bill S - 2 who stage the taken of decisions Medical regarding the treatment of survival and the soulagement of the pain .
I for my colleagues who have fact part , he there has already five years , of the Committee Senate Special on the Suicide and the assistance to the suicide .
any their reflection and all their work have was very productive .
he must now to the necessary to that the bill Bill S - 2 be effective and that he be adopted without delay .
honourable senators , to a time or the other of our life , he is came to the most of between we of we find to the chevet of a parent or of a friend very patient , in reselling to of were suffering , often to few days or few p.m. of their death .
we not wish that a something , and this is that this human subject this that he him rest to live in a comfort relatif , in the peace and the dignity .
unfortunately , he so too often that the comfort and the dignity not be not to the Boteler - you .
to was infirmière , I know the challenges are are face the professionals of the health in s of care palliative .
we have all was trained for cure .
in fact , all the system medical is built around of the concept of care curatifs .
we not have not learned to help the unevenly and , for many of between we , the death is synonyme of failure .
the professionals that we are are very aware of their responsibility before the bill , of so that the prudence we us of to the death to across of what .
on the plan staff , can - be that the death we terrifie and that we have of the difficulty to to opposite to the overblown of the patients and of their " and to accept the sense of vacuum that the death millions .
short , he there as and more of reasons complex who we choose to maintain the life to all price , even when that the fact against the will of the patient and to the backs of his dignity and of his peace .
I me am of the bill of bill S - 2 that I support with enthusiasm , specifically for the reason that he is to find of the solutions to the many reasons complex évoquées by the once of care of health for the acharner to save of the lives to all price .
the things not are not clear in s of responsibility criminal .
the bill of bill S - 2 has for subject of clarify the were of bill existing and of we ensure that the wish of the patients will respected by the system of care of health and that the coping will protected by the bill and the standards Medical necessary for better to that of the wishes of the patients .
more specifically , the bill of bill S - 2 states the conditions highlight on the plan legal the interruption of the treatment of survival and of the treatment of the pain is of abréger the life .
in a Prime time , the bill of bill S - 2 as in a wording clear and easy to understand that he is juridiquement acceptable that the soignant given to the patient of the pharmacare in approaching may of inevitable his suffering physical , even if these approaching into of in abréger the life .
the bill of bill has that the decision of administering these pharmacare is acceptable to the be of the bill only in the case where the intention is of inevitable the suffering physical , but not not in the case where the intention is of give the death .
the bill of bill S - 2 establishes a distinction clear in service of the intention : he the is of relieve the suffering physical and not of resulting the death .
this type of distinction of after the intention is to the basic even of our right pénal .
in our right , he there has without has of the distinctions to to .
I not think not that the bill of bill S - 2 which the relates to the suicide attended .
I believe by against that he clarifie the things and protects the professionals of the health , their can of ensure to the comfort and to the dignity of their patients .
second , the bill of bill S - 2 specific that he not there has not of responsibility criminal when a soignant practice the forbearance or the interruption of a treatment of survival portion that the patient , then that he was in possession of his means , has presented a ask valid in this sense .
honourable senators , all - widest of spirit to the Canada has the right of take of the decisions regarding his life , little any if to the be of the other , they seem good or bad .
each of between we has the freedom of decide of the treatment medical that he or it to or not to not , and that of the time and of the way of the interrupt .
Mr. . the Justice John Sopinka of the Court Supreme has expressed very briefly this right in the judgment that he has record in the case Rodriguez .
impose a treatment medical to a human who the refuses is a act of violence and the way way has recognized the right of such the interruption or the not - Administration of a treatment medical who prolongerait the life .
that still , the bill of bill S - 2 not fact that clarify the circumstances in which the decisions Medical are legal .
the rights and the principles in because are now abinet by our system judicial .
the bill Bill S - 2 specific then who can to a ask of forbearance or of interruption of a treatment medical , to the behalf of a patient who not is not in legislation of take this decision .
honourable senators , he not enough not of clarify the context legal of the decisions Medical , far of that .
in third place , the bill of bill S - 2 Order the Minister of the Health and his Provincial provincial to establish of the lines guidelines national in s of care palliative , of forbearance and of interruption of treatment of survival .
these lines guidelines are essential to the institution of a practice medical acceptable in this field .
our society is difficulty to the comfortable before the death .
we in have afraid .
we not go not in speak openly and take conscience of his means , of the sense .
why in would - he other for the people who soignent ?
why the expect to this that these people have of the skills innées before the death , simply of the fact of their profession ?
the bill of bill S - 2 require also that the professionals of the health receive a better training in care palliative , learn how and when inevitable the pain and interrupt a treatment of survival .
they must learn to apprivoiser the difficulties and the overblown that a illness seeks raises .
the bill of bill S - 2 heritage the contexts legal and social of these decisions Medical .
I think that the bill of bill S - 2 can to many for that the wishes and the needs of the patients be respected in the system of health to that their comfort and their dignity be protected , for that the legislation of the life rest the objective of the professionals of the health but that be would also to the patients and to their " the right of decide this who their is the better when the death there .
honourable senators , each family to the Canada is affected by this question .
we know all and any someone a who has seen a it barriers alarm and which the desire not has not was respected because that the soignant knew difficulty the care palliative or addressed of be continued in justice .
the bill of bill S - 2 will was Right as by the professionals of the health that by the families Canadian .
I for the Senator Carstairs and I wish of good deliberations to the Committee who discutera of this question .
the hon. M. DeWare :
honourable senators , we not have not the intention of delay the study of the bill of bill , but I believe know that the Senator Lavoie - Roux will among we the week next .
I believe that we must him let the opportunity of speak of this question .
I will therefore adjourn the debate in the behalf .
( on the motion of the Senator DeWare , to the behalf of the Senator Lavoie - Roux , the debate is adjourned . )
bill of bill on the perquisitions and the saisies international
second Reading - Adjourned of the debate
... 1540 ...
this bill of bill had already was introduced by my hon. colleague , the Senator Beaudoin , the 3 March last , during of the first session of the 30 - sixth Parliament .
he is was recorded to the Paper in September last before of have understand the step of the second Reading .
honourable senators , in 1982 , our country the is with of a tool powerful for protect the Canadians of the interventions abusive of the state in their life privacy .
he the is of the Charter Canadian of the rights and freedoms .
the section 32 of this last for that :
1 ) Position its made the applies :
has ) to the Parliament and to the government of the Canada for all the areas relevant of the Parliament there including those who with the territory of the Yukon and the Territories of the North - Western ;
b ) to the Parliament and to the government of each province , for all the areas relevant of this Parliament .
the section 8 of this Charter for that each Canadian has right to the protection against the denial , the perquisitions or the saisies abusive .
the bill of bill S - 4 is primarily to make a question important of right in this who has with to the application of the section 8 . Consequently , the section 3 of the bill of bill S - 4 specific , and I quote , that :
before of to a ask of perquisition or of back to the outside of the Canada to a organization or authority foreign or international to the for of a inquiry Current to a offence , the authority efficient its a request to a Justice or a Justice of peace for that be made a order Motion the ask .
this clause has for purpose of protect the individuals , to the Canada , against a perquisition or a back abusive who would place to the outside of the Canada .
when a citizen will the subject of a inquiry his to a présumée offence to a bill federal , the prosecutor General will will obtain the Authorized pre of a Justice , as this is the case during of a inquiry to the Canada .
that the happen before the sending of a letter of ask of assistance to the authorities of a other country for ask the back of documents who the find in this country .
honourable senators , this bill of bill the based of the findings of the Court Supreme of the Canada in the v. Schreiber .
memories the facts .
the intimé , who is citizen Canadian , résidait to the Canada and that in Europe , and he as of the accountable to the Swiss Banking Corporation to Zurich .
the government suisse has agreed the letter of ask and a order has was made Motion the back of documents and issues regarding the accountable of the intimé .
no mandate of perquisition or no other Authorized judicial not had préalablement was obtained to the Canada before the Presented of the letter of ask .
the Court federal and the Court of call federal had answered by the affirmative to this question .
the because was scope in call before the Court Supreme of the Canada .
the 28 May 1998 , the Justice in Leader of the more senior court of the country , Antonio Lamer , and that the Justice Claire - happy - Dubé have answered by the not to the question of right raised by Karl H . Schreiber .
that the Justice in Leader , a order Requesting the back of documents banking , made by the Department of the Justice of the Canada and sent to the authorities Swiss , not was not enter in at the application of the clause of the Charter .
the letter of ask of assistance not was therefore not it to the section 8 of the Charter and to the rights of Schreiber .
the Justice Lamer wrote to the paragraph 24 of his decision , and I quote :
the human who has of the property or of the documents in a state abroad short the risk that a delving or perquisition be done pursuant to the laws of this state .
it not can not " expectation the expect " to this that that not the " not , if the laws of the state in question is clear of such measures .
the Justice - Heureux - Dubé , about to the behalf of the majority of the court , was also of notice that the Charter not the was not to a government abroad .
in the kind , the actions of the authorities Swiss not were therefore not subject to the provisions various section 8 . De more , it not the was not to the letter of ask of assistance , because the Canada not has not by to the back or to the perquisition .
in a opinion dissidente , the judges Frank Iacobucci and Charles D . Gonthier have agreed that the government suisse not was not of the all subject to the respect of the provisions of the Charter .
by against , they have however esteemed Mr. Schreiber as of the expectations reasonable in s of life privacy .
and , the authorities Canadian have should obtain a mandate before of send the letter of ask to the authorities Swiss .
the minority has therefore an that the section 8 of the Charter the was in the case of Schreiber .
in make , the back of the documents banking demandée by the Department of the Justice without Authorized pre has were it to the right Mr. Schreiber to the respect of his life privacy .
honourable senators , several of between you have been of the reserves as to the scope of the provisions of the former bill of bill S - 24 .
some believe that he imposera the provisions of the Charter Canadian of the rights and freedoms in s of respect of the right to the life privacy to of other country during of ask of assistance to the over of investigation criminal .
I wish to you anyone immediately .
this bill of bill not has no scope extraterritorial .
for attempt of you convince of this of of fact , we must of first return to the principles who guident the application of the section 8 of the Charter during of investigation criminal .
since 1982 , the Court Supreme of the Canada has spécifié in several rulings the principles who must define the scope of the section 8 and the way of the apply excursions .
Dansl' v. R . . Schreiber , the Justice Frank Iacobucci " that the text of the section 8 give very little of provide on the scope and the subject of the interests that he is to protect .
in 1984 , in the v. Hunterc. SouthamInc. , the Justice Brian Dickson had defined for the first time the subject of the section 8 . It the was of the protection granted to the people against the intrusions knew of the state in their life privacy .
by against , the scope of this right was limited by the uniqueness reasonable of the Awaiting that has a human in s of respect of his life privacy in the circumstances of a case given .
the Justice Dickson has explained and this approach in Hunter to the pages 159 and 160 , and I quote :
the guarantee of protection against the denial , the perquisitions and the saisies abusive not is that a Awaiting reasonable .
this control of the right guaranteed by the section 8 , that it be stated under the form not , this is - to - say as a protection against the denial , the perquisitions and the saisies " abusive " , or under the form positive as the right of the expect " expectation " to the protection of the life privacy , as that he must appreciate if , in a situation given , the right of the public of not not be importuné by the government must independently the not to the right of the government of the immiscer in the life privacy of the special to of throughout his for and , including , of ensure the application of the bill .
in make , since the v. Hunter the concept of " Awaiting reasonable in s of life privacy " is the principle structurel can of determine if the section 8 the applies and protects the rights of a human in a situation given .
in a second time , the Court Supreme has been in several decisions the section 8 as to for effect of protect the people , and not of the be or of the things .
this principle marked a change important in the subject of the right to the life privacy .
this interpretation of the section 8 not was limited or by the concept of ownership or by the right being in s of intrusion .
in 1993 , that has took the Court Supreme to conclude , in the v. R . . Plant , that a human has a Awaiting reasonable in s of life privacy relatively to a together of information biographiques of order staff which nor of other people to the about .
the Justice John Sopinka , the really for the majority , has said this to the page 293 of the v. , and I quote :
... ... ... for that the protection constitutional the applies , the information before must be of nature personal and confidentielle .
given of the values under - underlying of dignity , of integrity and of self that he implementation , he is normal that the section 8 of the Charter protects a together of information biographiques of order staff that the special could , in a society free and democratic , would may and from to the knowledge of the state .
he could including the act of information Honourable to would of the details friends on the way of life and the choice personal of the individual .
he seems therefore clear , that the court , that the subject Main of the right to the life privacy is by therefore the effect of a delving , of a perquisition or of a back abusive on the individual .
the place where this legislation is exécutée is without importance .
since the v. Hunter , the Court Supreme has considered that the section 8 had for effect of protect , before the fact , the rights their to the life privacy .
he not must not be used for valider or condemn , after the fact , the intrusions of the state in the life privacy of a human .
in this sense , the court has of to the section 8 a interpretation based on the principle , of manner to this that he is more that a simple shut against the denial , the perquisitions or the saisies abusive .
as the has explained the Justice Gerard Position Forest in 1998 in the v. R . . Dyment , if the right to the life privacy of the individual must be sufficient , we not can we to of not to point this right that after that he has was breached .
that is inherent to the concept of protection against the denial , the perquisitions and the saisies abusive .
honourable senators , as you the know , each individual efficiently a great importance to his life privacy and to the means of the protect .
the uniqueness of the concept of life privacy is such that , as that be there has were it , be can rarely the high in the entirety .
by therefore , for that the section 8 protects effectively the Awaiting reasonable of a human in s of respect of his life privacy , he must produce his effects before the enforcement of the delving , of the perquisition or of the back , and before the disclosure of the information .
without this protection , he not would that very little of value in as that guarantee of the right to the life privacy the he not the was that for suspending , after the fact , of the information obtained of a manner abusive .
this interpretation of the section 8 has took a form concrete in the prerequisite Current to the Authorized judicial pre that has stated the Justice Dickson in the v. Hunter .
in this v. , he " that the court was , in a Prime time , weigh his decision between the right of the human fall to the respect of his life privacy and , of the interest of the state to the regard of the application of the bill .
by the on , he was necessary of determine the time where this Authorized should be granted by a court .
this had for purpose of prevent the denial and the perquisitions knew before that they not the produced .
that not could be accomplished that by a system of Authorized pre before the back and not by the through of a validation shipowners .
in make , that the more senior court of the country , the section 8 between then in at .
and , the right of the individual to the respect of his life privacy and the interest of the state in s of application of the bill are soupesés by the application of the process of Authorized judicial pre , before the enforcement of the delving , of the perquisition or of the back any .
honourable senators , the courts have also cerné the concept of uniqueness brings to the sense of the section 8 . would effect , for that a delving , a perquisition or a back be qualifiée of " reasonable " and not not " of abusive " , it must , that the Court Supreme of the Canada in the v. Hunter of 1984 :
... ... ... have was préalablement Cabinet by a human neutre and impartiale who must act of way judicial , that of the reasons reasonable and probable , of simple suspicions not the not Commission , and be done of manner reasonable and not abusive .
the Justice Antonio Lamer has enumerated , in 1987 , in the v. R . . Collins , three other conditions who must be respected to the sense of the bill for that a delving or perquisition done without mandate not be not considered " abusive " to the sense of the section 8 :
... ... ... it must be Cabinet by the bill ; the bill enabling not must not it - even be abusive ; and the delving not must not have was done of a manner abusive .
and , a delving , perquisition or back déclarée abusive can very to be valid as " reasonable " to the sense of the section 1 of the Charter .
until to now , the courts have fact a distinction between the saisies in the framework of Affairs criminal and the saisies in the context of Affairs administrative .
the criterion of the case Hunter statement before the applies rigoureusement to the saisies in the framework of Affairs criminal .
the Court Supreme has also indicated , in the v. McKinlay from of 1990 , that more the it of the right to the life privacy is great , more the guarantees of the v. Hunter must be respected .
in the case Schreiber , the judges Gonthier and Iacobucci have expressed a opinion dissidente , as I the have mentioned more earlier , those - this the of notice that the back of accountable banking to the outside of the Canada , without Authorized judicial pre , seem the right to the protection of the life privacy .
in they to this conclusion , the Justice Iacobucci the is seconded on the interpretation broad and Liberal of the section 8 of the Charter that I have explained more earlier .
for determine if the letter of ask of assistance was contrary to the provisions of the section 8 , the Justice has used the guidelines contained in the v. Plant by the Justice Sopinka .
they had for purpose of determine if a human in because had , relatively to some information , a Awaiting reasonable in s of life privacy him as right to the protection of the section 8 . , the page 293 of this v. , he has wrote , and I quote :
the review of factors such the nature of the information , the of the relations between the part divulguant the information and the part in réclamant the confidentiality , the place where they have was collected , the conditions in which they have was obtained and the serious of the crime by the subject of the inquiry , allows of pondérer the rights social to the protection of the dignity , of the integrity and of the self of the human and the application effective of the bill .
several principles can be dégagés of this interpretation of the application of the section 8 . De first , the authorities relating of the application of the bill must be sensibles to the right of a human to the respect of his life privacy , relatively to a together of information biographiques of order staff the regarding .
the existence of a Awaiting reasonable in s of life privacy déclenche the application of the guarantees for by the section 8 . you this Awaiting there and that the - this is danger by a intrusion predicted by the government , the authorities relating of the application of the bill are held of obtain a Authorized judicial before of act .
was the framework contextuel public by the Justice Sopinka in the v. Plant , the Justice Iacobucci has an that the intimé had indeed a such Awaiting to the regard of his documents banking Swiss .
these the seek of the details personal on the human fall , including his situation financial and of the choice friends regarding the way of life .
second , be could what the reports who exist between the bank and the client of relationship of confidence who , following the v. Plant , give place to a more great Awaiting in s of life privacy relatively to the information in because .
finally , if the information Canadian were easily availability without intrusion or without the won of a third , he there would then least of opportunity that he there has violation of the life privacy of the human concernée .
in the kind , the information have should be obtained by intrusion in the bank suisse and with the won of a third , this who parliament to would that the intimé had a Awaiting reasonable in s of life privacy relatively to these information .
of more , as the Justice Iacobucci the ask to the paragraph 56 of the v. Schreiber , and I quote :
the procedure of perquisition and of back has was divestiture by the government of the Canada by the Presented of a ask if to the government of the Switzerland , seen the absence of treaty between the two country .
the ask has was introduced in the framework of a inquiry Canadian who , can - be assume , would avid , to the Canada , to of the from - to a Canadian a offence to the Code criminal Canadian .
the right to the life privacy , such that he has was been in under of the Charter , protects the people and not of the be .
the effect on the individual of a perquisition and of the back of documents banking is the even , that the perquisition and the back have place to the Canada or in Switzerland .
the intimé has a Awaiting reasonable in s of life privacy relatively to the information banking , little any the place where the find the accountable .
he is all to fact reasonable , to my notice , that the intimé the attende to this that the authorities Canadian not can directing the assistance of the authorities Swiss for obtain his documents banking in Switzerland without obtain a some form of Authorized judicial pre to the Canada .
the Justice had therefore answered by the affirmative to the question of Schreiber and he had recommended of the neutralizes to the laws Canadian for correct this imprécision .
this is exactly this that the bill of bill S - 4 is to chamber .
of , , the Justice Wetston of the Court federal and the Justice Linden of the Court of call federal are upon to the same findings that the judges dissidents of the Court Supreme in the v. Schreiber .
honourable senators , he is clear that each case is particular .
this is why the section 4 of the bill of bill S - 4 for that the Justice appropriate , who can hear the ask former parte , must see that it is consistent to the standards determined by the Charter Canadian of the rights and freedoms .
if such is the case , he can to a order Motion that the approach be made , and that the require the section 5 of the bill of bill .
honourable senators , before the Presented of the other provisions of my bill of bill , I like to the question of the application extraterritorial .
in the v. Schreiber , the Justice in Leader of the Court Supreme has fact as to the application extraterritorial of the Charter .
for this to , he has used the rulings Terry and Harrer , who affirmaient clear that the proposal that the Charter not has not of application to the outside of the Canada .
these two Affairs were on the conduct of authorities U.S. who , seize to the States - United , had coast of the statements of suspects of a manner who , well that consistent to the Bill of Zinn American , were exceeded with the Charter .
in the two causes , the Court Supreme has an that the Charter not could govern the actions made by of the authorities foreign in a country abroad .
this conclusion is consistent with the section 32 of the Charter , who CRTC the application of this last " over Parliament and to the government of the Canada " and " to the Parliament and to the government of each province " .
it is also consistent , as the has out the Justice Beverley McLachlin in the v. Terry , with the principle of the courtesy international .
that the Justice , he was unrealistic of the expect to this that the authorities foreign are and observent the laws of the Canada .
honourable senators , in the case Schreiber , the situation was different .
already , the Justice Wetston of the Court federal had rejected the argument following which the fact of answer affirmativement to the question raised by the intimé revert to apply the Charter extraterritorialement .
he not has never has in question the laws on the respect of the right to the life privacy of the Switzerland or of the government of this country during of the back of the documents banking .
the conduct misjudgment in the kind is the preparedness and the sending of the letter of ask by of the members Canadian .
these members were clear subject to the right Canadian , there including to the Charter , to the within of the Canada and , in the most of the case , to the outside of the Canada .
they were far Canadian , to the section 32 of the Charter , in as that representatives of the power executive of the " government of the Canada " .
who more is , because that they were Canadians , he not there had no reason of to that of the courtesy international .
be could therefore the expect to this that they are the right Canadian , there including the Constitution .
he not was not unreasonable of such of them that they the respect .
that is particularly true of the members who agissaient to the behalf of the prosecutor General and who , of fact , could have of the responsibilities further we of the nature particular of this for .
I wish to mention that the author of the letter not has not fact approve the content of the letter by the a of his senior .
yet , as I the mentionnais more earlier , this letter " clear that the ask of assistance had for purpose of continue a inquiry criminal .
it could give place to of the from to the Canada against a citizen Canadian .
in the judgment , the Justice Wetston had an to according 944 , and I quote :
... ... ... if the intimé can be continued to the Canada , I not see not why he not should not have right to the benefits accessoires of the Charter
in make , he has an that the intimé had a Awaiting reasonable in s of life privacy .
after have was this conclusion and have directed the nature of the information who had was saisies , he has an that in under of the section 8 , be was the allocations of a Authorized pre with of a Incumbent of duties judicial would before that the letter of ask can be expédiée .
he is therefore clear that the Charter the applies of way general to of such letters of ask .
some of between you will tentés of say that the letter of ask not is no set to a review based on the section 8 . é utiliserez probably the example of the procedure that must follow a province Canadian for directing the assistance of a other province in view of the enforcement of a delving , perquisition or back .
now , the authorities who this of such requests of assistance not have not to obtain of Authorized judicial pre pursuant to the section 8 before of send their ask .
he not the applies not as that the ask not has not was received , time where he must obtain a mandate Motion the delving , the perquisition or the back .
, this argument , I contend this .
in the context Canadian , the authorities who this the ask know that the - this will the subject of a review judicial before the enforcement of the delving , perquisition or back proposed .
in the context of the case Schreiber , to the contrary , be not has not informed the court that the authorities Swiss have examined the touchstone of the ask of delving , of perquisition , or of back introduced by a government abroad .
we not know not not more what form insolvent a such review .
however , be has mentioned that the be the him expectation to this that the authorities Swiss are on to the ask .
as the has mentioned the Justice Iacobucci , to the paragraph 57 of the v. Schreiber , and I quote :
he is someone little formaliste of conclude that the procedure implemented to the Canada for to the requests of assistance made by a province to a other allows of answer completely to the question raised in the kind .
the application of a approach formaliste or legalistic is contrary to the jurisprudence Current to the Charter , who recognizes since long that the rights guaranteed by this text must be interprétés generously and in service of the subject described .
he is more appropriate of apply to the question a approach based on of the principles .
this result is consistent to the interpretation broad and Liberal constantly implemented by our Court to the section 8 in view of " ensure to the citizen the right of be sufficient against the afflicted of the government to his expectations reasonable in s of life privacy " .
not not apply the section 8 to the letter of ask could have for effect of to let outright " between two chaises " the right of the intimé to the respect of his life privacy .
I say that because , that given of the situation international in at here , nothing not we guarantees that the principle of the Authorized judicial pre has was observers and , in make , the a of the pierres angulaires of the analysis based on the section 8 has was omise .
... 1610 ...
the Canadians are protected to the Canada by the Charter Canadian of the rights and freedoms .
honourable senators , during of the debate on the former Bill bill S - 24 , several of between you substantially raised the question of the costs important from to the application of this legislation .
I believe , to the light of the requests of the years pensioners , that this process of Authorized judicial pre can be properly managed and that he not will not of costs important for the government federal .
that the figures provided by the Department of the Justice of the Canada in the statement under oath who Adieu the memory of the prosecutor General of the Canada in the case Schreiber , the Canada has some 79 requests in 1992,80 requests in 1993 , 137 requests in 1994 , 109 requests in 1995 and 87 requests in 1996 .
we not have not the figures of the years 1997 and 1998 , but I hope that the representatives of the Department of the Justice will we the provide to time during of the study of this bill of bill in Committee .
I wish to mention that the bill of bill S - 24 not relates not it to the treaties of assistance step who are the Canada to some States foreign in the framework of investigation administrative or criminal .
the Canada has an of the treaties of this type avec16 country .
I like now to the question of the regarding that the be is to the section 2 of the bill of bill S - 24 .
a officer public abroad is a human who Canada a mandate legislative , administrative or judicial of a state abroad or who ) a service public to the within of a state abroad .
this not is not I who have created this definition .
it the based of the scheduled to the section 2 of the Act on the corruption of members public foreign , who has received the Assent Royal the 10 December 1998 .
the authority efficient fall by this bill is the prosecutor General of the Canada , the prosecutor General of a province and any human or authority - , to the Canada , of the investigation provisions to the offences to the laws federal and to their any .
this definition the based of the scheduled in the Act on the corruption of members public foreign having lines .
the offences i by this bill of bill are those to with to the laws federal .
this bill of bill is therefore CRTC to the laws and to the regulations federal .
the along of the Justice appropriate varies that the province .
the expression " Justice of peace " 1 to the fall by the section 2 of the Code criminal .
finally , this bill of bill not has not of effect rétroactif .
in conclusion , honourable senators , the bill of bill S - 4 will in so that the section 8 will be took when he can help to accepting the repetition of a conduct unconstitutional by of the members Canadian , even if the conduct of these members brings a country abroad to to the assistance .
the provisions of the bill of bill will in so that the Canada not can not impose his own standards procédurales to of other States .
by against , he ups to this that the right to a Awaiting reasonable in s of life privacy be sufficient in case of delving or perquisition made to the Canada or to the abroad to the ask of members Canadian .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , the Senator Nolin we has of a treaty legal very fouillé on this who is , that him , the subject of the bill of bill S - 4 .
I must say that he me will a sure time for well understand this that he has said , but I would a question to him for all of on .
in listening the intervention , he me has seemed that he said that the Constitution for already a protection rather get .
the Senator would - he the please of summarized the reasons who justifying the Adopted of the bill of bill S - 4 ?
I know well that he has was a sure time and well of the procedures for in come that , but , of after his about , the interpretation that the courts have given of the section 8 assure a protection any complete of the right to the life privacy and also a protection against the from abusive , of the least if the be in Justice of after the case Schreiber and few other causes .
the Senator Nolin :
the question an directly the essential .
I hope that we able refer the bill of bill to a Committee , because this is specifically this point that we must study .
this is for this reason that I have quoted of many causes heard by the Court Supreme .
in any honesty , the court contradicted the 18 past years of decisions regarding the section 8 of the Charter .
he has was many of time for establish the various aspects of the protection in under of the section 8 . Position court has also took great be of determine that only the authorities Canadian would gives to the Charter .
however , the judgment dissident of the two judges will more in the sense of this that I move to the Parliament , the of their analysis of the section 8 .
this is a question complex , because it does that the Parliament submit if the protection scheduled in the section 8 relates on the individual or on the place where is perpétré the act .
I am of notice , as the two judges dissidents in the case Schreiber , that this is on the individual because that the Charter protects the individual , not the place where is perpétré the act .
he there has had , with the years , of many decisions and a important jurisprudence on the question to the Court Supreme , and the case Schreiber is , to my humble notice , contradictoire .
I move that we corrigions that .
in the case Schreiber , for streamline a case complicated , the government suisse is only a officer .
all the other parties conducts in this together of facts are Canadian .
the ask has was made by the authorities Canadian regarding a individual Canadian for a future any criminal to the Canada .
I not know not if I or a response get to your question .
I am sure that you if better this situation complex when you seen read my speech .
I hope that the Senate will of agreed with I for that this question be referred to the Committee .
( on the motion of the Senator Cools , the debate is adjourned . )
privileges , Rules and procedure
third report of the Committee - Withdrawn of the section
the order of the day Order :
Report of the third report of the Committee Standing of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure ( question of privilege of the Senator Kinsella ) , presented to the Senate 24 November 99 . - ( - hon. Senator Austin , P ) .
the hon. Jack Austin :
the Committee Standing of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure has examined this question of privilege to his first Senate following the referred by the Senate .
in the third report , the Committee said that he has them to be in legislation of to a Senate to camera closed the he became necessary of to properly the question of privilege .
the Clerk of the Committee Standing of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure the is talked Mr. Chopra and him has asked two questions .
he him has asked , of first , the he commendably that the Committee based the testimony to camera closed or in public , then , if the union and him - even meddling a objection to this that the question of privilege raised by the Senator Kinsella be consideration to the Committee in even time that the grief is heard by the Board of the relations of work in the service public .
Mr. . Chopra has answered that he was know that the Senate not is not a court who following the rules normal of the evidence .
he believes that , in as that approach policy , the Senate of the Committee Senate must be public .
he not with no objection to this that the two reviews have place in even time .
he unless to the Clerk that he believe that a review to camera closed not is to the advantage of human and that he not has nothing to the .
he wish only that the review to the Committee be fair , public and enough thorough for with the question .
in more of answer to the two questions , he has also informed that the lawyer the accompagnerait to any meeting scheduled by the Committee Standing , and that he addressed that the Department could the acharner against him by the on .
honourable senators , as the question in dispute was to know if the Committee Standing should sit to camera closed , and that the witness in question not with no generates to participate to a hearing met , I ask that the recommendation of to a hearing to camera closed , who is in the third report , be withdrawn and that this debate be considered as debated .
the Hon. the Speaker good tempore :
honourable senators , the leave is - it granted of withdraw this section ?
the hon. John Lynch - Lynch ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I am surprised of hear the chairman of the Committee say that that the fact after notice and consultation of a witness .
I not believe not that he concise to a witness of decide how a Committee should proceed and in what conditions .
, my notice , he with to the Committee of decide and to the witness of accept the conditions .
he me seems that the contrary the be product .
I am very surprised of hear the chairman of the Committee ask that the recommendation of to the meeting to camera closed be withdrawn - I know why it has was introduced - after consultation of a witness .
this is to the Committee that he with of decide how he should proceed , and the witnesses must the plier to his decision , what that it be .
I me ask if the lawyers should with the witnesses ; but this is a question school .
the witness fixed the guideline of his appearance , including to the about of know if the hearing would public or to camera closed .
this decision should to to the Committee .
the Senator Austin :
honourable senators , me granted - you to consider that as a question and to attempt of there answer ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator Austin :
honourable senators , I am of notice that he is that appropriate that the Committee take in consideration the risk which the exposerait a witness the he there had a question of privilege .
well course , the Committee will the decision .
however , I think that he would qualified equitable that the Committee é that of the risk which could the with a witness and that he him it know how he will proceed .
I think that he would also equitable that the Committee Standing give to the witness the possible of him express the point of view .
honourable senators , the witness has the intention of appear and I believe that he 3 before the Committee Standing Tuesday next .
the hon. Donald H . Oliver :
honourable senators , I like for a question to the hon. Senator Austin .
when he has presented the facts , the Senator has said that the witness has said to the Clerk that he addressed that the Department could " the acharner against him by the on " .
that means " the acharner against him by the on " in about of the consequences for the employment the he appear before a Committee Senate ?
the Senator Austin :
honourable senators , I rapportais simply this that the witness had said to the Clerk of the Committee .
I not think not that I should answer to your question , since all this that I could say be of a proposition .
I not has not of other information on the sense Mr. Chopra wanted give to this expression .
the Senator Oliver :
the hon. Senator addressed - he that he be victim of those and that he the s to of serious impact ?
the Senator Austin :
I thank the hon. Senator of me help to answer to the Senator Lynch - Lynch .
the Senator Lynch - Lynch :
he me seems that be would could the consult for know if , to the notice , he understandable of proceed to camera closed .
he has known this who the was only when the motion has was proposed in this chamber .
if a witness said that be could the acharner against him , he me seems that we should obtain a little more of information on this with to the place of we " of a ouï - say regarding this who has was said to the Clerk of the Committee and of the waves explanation of the chairman .
if the hearing the with , we will before we a witness who the - attack , or who the s to of the threats , or who lead for the employment because that he is before a Committee Senate .
is - this the situation who we is Tuesday next ?
the Senator Austin :
honourable senators , we will well this who the what Tuesday .
the that record reflètera the about of the witness .
I not believe not that be earner what that this be to for and of the questions hypothétiques .
well course , I have discussed with the Senator Kinsella of his question of privilege .
the colleagues of the hon. Senator Lynch - Lynch are members of the Committee , there including the vice - chairman , the Senator Normand .
they are to the aware of each legislation taken here and support the third report debated to the Committee .
if I not can not consult the colleagues of the hon. Senator , and that I must consult someone a of other , I like that be me the say .
the hon. ë A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I thank the chairman of the Committee Standing of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure for the work of the Committee to this regard .
we have had the opportunity of discuss briefly he there has few days .
fortunately , he not the is not of a case where a Committee wants of to a Senate to camera closed for hear a hon. Senator who to share of the information relevant to the work of the Committee .
other , the Senator the retrouverait in the situation difficult where , all in the against the held of sittings to camera closed , he should or désirerait there attend .
he the is of a case rather hypothetical , but the events described by the Senator Austin me expressing .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the leave has was granted .
pleasure - he to the Senate of withdraw this section ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the section is from . )
the freedom religious in China in report with the pactes international of the Nations Nations
inquiry - Continued of the debate
the order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the inquiry of the hon. Senator Wilson , calling the attention of the Senate on the freedom religious in China in report with the pactes international of the Nations Nations . - (
the hon. Senator Austin , P )
the hon. Jack Austin :
honourable senators , the Wednesday 24 November 99 , the hon. Senator Statutes Wilson has drew the attention of the Senate on the freedom religious in China in report with the pactes international of the Nations Nations .
his comments reposaient on his broader experience of the Affairs religious .
our hon. colleague has acted as modérateur with of the Church united of the Canada .
the intervention was on to a trip staff that the hon. Senator has fact in as that member of the delegation of the Council Canadian of the Églises , who has fact a time in China of the 23 October to the 5 November .
many of Canadians , here even to the Senate and across to the Canada , the interested of close to the questions related to the rights of the human , particularly to the way which these values , who are criticism that our own concept of the relations human and of the stability social , are respected in China .
this will on the China is inexorable for the simple reason that the public of this country represents about reach per of the public World .
the systems of values and the practices of a if great over of the public of the world are essential to the institution of a society human peaceful and Progressive to the has World .
be has of the evidence clear who indicate that the China to promote the respect of the rights of the human to the within of the society Chinese to of been the creativity of the people Chinese in the modernization economic and social of the China .
the report of the Senator Wilson is , to my notice , fair , balanced and exactly in this who has with to the freedom of religion in China .
in fact , the invitation lancée to the Council Canadian of the Églises for that he the or in China and is the freedom of religion is , in itself , a expression of the will of the China of Services a discussion met and a dialogue ' to the about of the freedom of religion as a of the aspects basic of the rights of the human .
as in any society , be must where of the limits to the freedom to of ensure that the freedom it - even can be préservée and Gap .
how find this balance is a optimist rebirth .
a Justice British of the century last has had to judge a because where the défendeur had crié to the gun in a into bondé .
he not there had not of fire , but the people who were in the Room have paniqué and many have was any in the ruant to the " .
the Defence has allégué the right to the freedom of speak , the right of say not any what not any where without regard to the consequences .
in the judgment , the Justice has an that human not could the serve of the freedom of speak for say deliberately or of way entailed a mensonge who risk of resulting of the wrong to of other people of a way that a man reasonable could be .
the idea that have the Chinese of the limits to the freedom of religion is based on of the values cultural and of the experiences historic different of the how .
the size of the China and his vulnérabilité to the dissension Economy , to the invasion by of the foreign and to well of other factors engendrent the pragmatism of the authority horrific and of the authority é for to régner the peace and the order .
the traditions of responsibility collective exist since of the centuries and , in fact , have was dictate for ensure the security and the survival of the unity social , that this be the family , the village , the coincidental or the province .
the control of the behaviour of the individuals was perceived as essential to the security and to the well - be of the unity .
we reconnaîtrions this practice in the maxime of John Stewart Mill , who described the policy social British as to " the more great happiness for the more great number " .
course , in the reality , the autoritarisme the Adieu often of this is human that is the attitude arbitrary , this attitude who not there no legislation of protection against the inequity , the immoralité and the not - respect of the practices and of the standards ensure to the Ethics .
well that the China be far of be the country the more corrompu of the world , the corruption there is still a problem serious in a society who just of about the transition of a economy part the rending of the model marxiste to a economy of market Socialist , this is - to - say a economy of market to the sense where we the go , but a economy still part of manner strategic and réglementée to the way of plans quinquennaux and of measures of monitoring of the performance .
the he not fact no doubt that the regime policy of the China the based of the autoritarisme , he is also true that the Chinese the accommodent well of their freedoms economic and Social and that they not have never was also well since of the centuries .
the government of the China not employ can - be not the same ' that the government of the Canada for allowed , but he with really to improve the life of his public to the place of the " of enrich the group to the power , as that the fact in of other country .
the Canada the is committed on several fronts with the China , this who demonstrates well the commitment growing to the respect of the rights of the human in the sense individualiste where we the go .
we have of the groups of study abiding on the practice legal and judicial who it the focus on of the values as the burden of the evidence , the right of keep the silence , the independence of the power judicial and the role of a system of counsel legal independent .
as the honourable senators the know , in 1998 , the Parliament of the Canada has ' on at a association legislative States - Chinese of our with the Congress national of the people .
two meetings of parliamentarians have had place , a in China , in November 1998 , to which have attended 12 parliamentarians Canadian , there including of the senators , and a other when of the members important of the Congress national of the people have visited Ottawa , Toronto , Winnipeg and Victoria for exchange of the opinions with of the legislators federal and provincial .
among the issues broader , he there has had the practice legislative , the role of our Opposition official , the limits cut to the government in the process legislative , the rules of procedure and the rest .
the Chinese are very it to we understand .
of our side , we are it to know how they perçoivent the idea that a debate peaceful not led not to a instability social and policy , but increasing the stability .
the honourable senators not know can - be not that the Committee Joint Canada - China of the rights of the human has was created by the Minister of the Affairs foreign , Lloyd Axworthy , in April 1997 .
this Committee is to speak a dialogue Standing on the rights of the human between the two country in an all particularly the focus on the Covenant international relatif to the rights Political and political and the Covenant international relatif to the rights economic , social and Cultural , that the two country have signés but who not have not still was ratifiés by the Congress national of the people .
among the issues precise broader by the Committee Joint , he there has the rights of the women and of the children , the rights of the charged , the new rules of procedure criminal , the cooperation bilateral on the rights of the human , the cooperation international on the rights of the human , the rights of the minorities and of the Peoples aboriginal , and the freedom of religion .
the recent visit in China of the Senator Wilson , chairman of the delegation Canadian on the freedoms religious , the is made under the auspices of the Committee Joint .
he me must also make that the Committee Joint is constantly active and working without tirelessly .
the members Canadian members of the Committee the are people on the ground in the province of the Yunnan , where the be is a great number of minorities ethnic , and to the Tibet , where the debate the on on the question of the freedom of religion .
the members Chinese members of the Committee have as to them visited Ottawa , Winnipeg and Whitehorse .
the question of Falun Gong has was most during of a Senate of the Committee Joint to Beijing the 8 et9 November 99 . - 4 November , the question has was raised of new by the Senator Wilson and his delegation when they have met of the senior hosting to the offices of the Department of the Affairs foreign of China , to Beijing .
that the said , he any of understand that he there a myriad of questions related to the practices Chinese in s of rights of the human who attireront our attention in the months to come .
the extensive reforms economic in over in China are to the origin of unrest social and political , the million of Chinese sacrifiés on the sacrificed of the efficiency economic not to not access to a system of security social similar to , that we have to the Canada .
the levels social and economic lower are particularly indignés by the corruption in China .
the behaviour arbitrary of the simple officials , including in the back - country , is a because of dissension .
be note of the agitation policy to the Tibet and in the Xinjiang where is established a minority turque and musulmane .
the government Chinese continue of to the priority to the stability rather that to the reforms structurelles of the system policy and legal .
short , since 20 years , of great progress have was made to the chapter of the rights of the human in China , and I believe that this trend the " .
the from of the China to the Organization World of the trade will a important urged .
the Canada and the China have signed their agreement on the from of the China to the WTO to Toronto , Friday last , the 26 November , to the opportunity of the meeting Annual of quelque250 members of the Canada - China Business Torture .
the WTO is a system of rules trade including a process of regulation of the differences .
the China has clear idea to the principle of the rule of the right .
in the years to come , it approfondira his understanding and his implementation in practice of this principle .
the hon. Lowell Murray :
I like for a question to the hon. Senator .
this that he has said on the fact that the Chinese the pertinent to a economy of market , but with a leadership very centralisée , me has interested .
the next time that my colleague will in China for a meeting of the group legislative States - Chinese , the chargera he of to in Access the Chinese in their expliquant that the Canada has tried the even formula in the years 80 , with of the initiatives such that the AEIE and the Program Energy national , and that that the is balances a disaster total ?
the Senator Austin :
I will deal the question of the Senator Murray as a argument .
( on the motion of the Senator Di Nino , the debate is adjourned . )
the Estimates of the Estimates of 99 - 2000
notice of motion to Authorized to the Committee of the Finance national to study the Budgets of the Estimates - Adjourned of the debate
the hon. Lowell Murray , pursuant to the notice 1 December 99 , move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Finance national be authorized to study , to of in to report , the Estimates expenditures in the Estimates of the Estimates for the year financial the ending the 31 March 2000 ; and
that the Committee its the report to the more later 31 March 2000 .
motion of amendment
the hon. Fernand Robichaud :
honourable senators , I like propose a amendment to this motion on to a meeting of the Committee of the fisheries , yesterday night .
this amendment has was agreed to the unanimously by all the members of the Committee :
that the motion be amended , by adding , after the words , " the Estimates of the Estimates for the year financial the ending the 31 March 2000 " , of this who following :
" to the exception of the appropriation 1 , 5 and 10 of the Fisheries and Oceans ;
that the Committee Senate Standing of the fisheries be authorized to study the Estimates expenditures of the Fisheries and Oceans domain in the Estimates of the Estimates for the year the ending the 31 March 2000 ; and
that the Committee its the report to the more later the 31 March 2000 .
the hon. Lowell Murray :
this question has been a very subject discussion to our Committee of the Finance national the other day .
, our notice , even if the appropriation of the government took in a sense overall are removed to the Committee of the Finance national , nothing not from a other Committee Standing of the Senate of the to refer the appropriation of the Department who interested this Committee .
the members of the Committee of the Finance national the objectent to this that the mandate more overall be dilué of a way or of a other .
I me summer of adjourn the debate for to to my colleagues of there participate .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I have a question of the Senator Murray regarding the of of the Estimates Main of the Estimates before the prorogation .
he me seems that the positions budgétaies of the Department of the Fisheries have was studied by the Committee of the fisheries to the over of the last session .
I me ask if the Senator Murray could explain this change apparent of Position .
I understand that the Speaker has changed , but why this change of Position between the last session and the its session , particularly in words of this that was the Committee of the fisheries and of the review of the budget of the Estimates of the Department of the Fisheries ?
the Committee wanted hear the evidence of the officials of the Department and of other on a question who the concern particularly .
of more , I not think not that this is the first time that a part of the budget of the Estimates of a Department be took by a Committee particular .
in the other House , this is certainly and that they critically for the Budgets of the Estimates , if I not me read .
I out the manner which we people the Estimates Supplementary of the Estimates ( A ) , for which some appropriation have was removed to the committees abiding in reason of the practices of the other House .
we have referred the appropriation to with to the languages official and to the Library of the Parliament to the committees abiding competent .
I apprécierais a response to this question .
the Senator Murray :
honourable senators , I date of there answer .
I have was chairman of this Committee for a year or two he there has already a sure time , and I have an the Speaker to the over of this session .
the used to the Senate to that be somatotropin the Estimates Main of the Estimates and the Estimates Supplementary of the Estimates to the Committee Senate Standing of the Finance national .
since few years , because that of other committees Standing have know to the forecasts budget for the departments which they the roles , we have decided of withdraw the forecasts budget of these departments issue of the mandate of the Committee Senate Standing of the Finance national .
I have before my colleagues of this question to the Committee the other day and they the are contrary to this practice .
they had two reasons , if I not me read , and I can you say that of the senators expérimentés as the senators Cools , Bolduc and Doody were all to fact against this practice .
their first reason , this is that the Committee Senate Standing of the Finance national is the Committee responsible of study the forecasts budget and he is therefore of refer these forecasts globalement to our Committee .
that said , they dismiss that nothing not from a other Committee Standing of obtain the mandate of the Senate of the focus on the forecasts budget for a Department in particular .
their second ground was that , if we we for learning that any study by a other Committee Standing of the forecasts budget of the Department which he the ' must the to to the backs of the mandate of the Committee Senate Standing of the Finance national , then this not would not possible .
a time my motion agreed , even with several amendments , the Committee Senate Standing of the agriculture and of the Forestry , by example , not could not about a study of the forecasts budget of the Department of the Agriculture .
I think therefore that we not should not accept that a Committee Standing be more in what that this be of study in full the forecasts budget of a Department in particular of the only fact that the forecasts budget have was renvoyées globalement to the Committee Senate Standing of the Finance national .
that could be different if we find take of the measures for this who is of approve the forecasts budget including .
as the hon. Senator the knows , this not is not the case .
we do report on the forecasts budget with our points of view and our recommendations , but we not are not called to approve these forecasts budget in voting .
the Senator Robichaud :
honourable senators , I like explain the reasons of the amendment that I move to the behalf of the chairman of the Committee and of the members of the Committee of the fisheries .
when the Senator Murray has proposed the adjournment of the debate on the motion , I not me am not rose since the Senator Hays the has fact .
but if I then , honourable senators , I like you say that the Committee not to not create of precedent .
during of the first session of the last Parliament , the Committee of the fisheries had received a order of referred .
you you rappellerez that a motion had was accepted to this effect .
this is of , this that we have fact , and the Minister has met the Committee to three occasions .
he would in the interest of the Senate that this Committee the before on these esteemed and questionne the Minister in the purpose of know how he highlights all these programs in application .
in this report presented the year last , the seventeenth recommendation stipulait that the esteemed of the Estimates of the Department of the Fisheries and of the Oceans be référés to the Committee of the fisheries .
this report has was adopted the 16 June to the unanimously by this House .
this is therefore on this report and on this motion , who have was adopted , that the basic the Committee for continue the study of the budget of the Estimates of the Department of the Fisheries and of the Oceans .
I you assure that he not is we in the intention of the Committee of the fisheries of empiéter on the mandate of a other Committee .
I believe firmly and do that our role would rather of you help , since if you have to consider the Budgets of all the departments , you not seen certainly not the time of to testify each of the ministers , their officials or counsel .
the Committee has a little more the time for study the budget since he the is of a only Department .
we the have fact the year last .
we we are well acquittés of this responsibility in acclaim the Minister .
in what our report and that a recommendation accepted to the unanimously , we want all simply continue in the even vein .
the hon. Anne C . Cools :
honourable senators , I like understand exactly this who the on here .
more earlier , the Senator Murray has said that he wanted adjourn the debate and speak more later .
are - we in full debate or well the Senator Murray the without he to propose finally the adjournment ?
the Hon. the Speaker :
hon. Senator Cools , we are now before of the motion of amendment of the hon. Senator Robichaud .
the Senator Murray :
honourable senators , I me apprêtais to propose the adjournment of the debate , but as that I have seen that of other senators want continue , I me am sitting well course for that the debate can the continue .
the Senator Cools :
I think therefore that I should add few words to the debate .
he me seems that few questions the an to we .
be could the geographic in two Each , the great and the small .
the great question , as the has if well said the Senator Murray , this is the mandate and the powers of the Committee Standing Senate of the Finance national regarding the review of the budget of the Estimates , and that the right that has this Committee the right of receive the entirety of this budget for the review .
I believe that this that the Senator Robichaud written in large , this is the right or the power of a Committee of ask a mandate of the Senate for study some appropriation who the interested in the budget of the Estimates .
we seek today today to the restore .
the 4 March 99 , by on of the debate given the there , this is - to - say the 3 March , the Senator Carstairs has proposed :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Finance national be authorized to study , to of in to report , the Estimates expenditures in the Estimates of the Estimates for the year financial the ending the 31 March 2000 , to the exception of the appropriation 1 , 5 and 10 of Fisheries and Oceans , of the credit 10 of the Parliament and of the credit 25 of the Council private .
the Senator Robichaud wish in fact réactiver this mandate .
if the be with to the debate who has had place the 3 March , be with well that the senators Stewart and Comeau had indeed presented this ask .
we must with this question .
, the obviously , this is the a or the other .
a practice of the House of the Commons is subrepticement on the point of the s to the Senate .
well that I seaway not of generates to this that , in some case , of the appropriation be submitted to the review of different committees , I not wish not that that must a practice Senate day and that each time that we are before of the budget of the Estimates , that the study of these appropriation be undertaken to the committees .
that the said , I am the response of the Senator Comeau .
is the question that we must manner .
for the immediate , however , he the is of know if the Committee of the Senator Robichaud , the Committee Senate the interesting to Fisheries and Oceans , can be indeed authorized to to these appropriation .
we able with the other question certified .
the hon. Sharon Carstairs :
the mandates of the Committee are limpides .
the only Committee that the Rules allows to study the budget of the Estimates of a Department is the Committee Senate Standing of the Finance national .
he not is question of no other Committee in this Rules .
however , the Rules said that the committees can study of the questions in General .
be there that , of the point of the government , a study general of the fisheries should clearly englober the study of the budget of the Estimates .
except all the respect that I you must , he would can - be tidy this question and to a decision to this regard .
that risk of we resulting of the problems .
we have certainly had of the problems , the week last , when we have tried of refer a bill of bill to two committees elongated .
we have determined that this not was not the good way of to .
he will can - be clarify the Rules .
of fact , Honour Hon. , you pays decide of refer the question to the Committee of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure , if you préférez not not to this decision you - even .
the hon. ë A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I am all to fact of agreed with the about of the Senator Carstairs .
I like add that - section 86 as clear that this is to the Committee Senate of the Finance national of study the accountable national and the Finance public .
regarding the Committee Senate of the fisheries , the Rules said :
... ... ... on order of the Senate , the bills of bill , from , Petitions , interpellations , documents and other Contents regarding the fisheries in General .
this is proprement the mandate of this Committee .
frankly , this is the role of the Committee of the Finance national of study globalement the accountable financial of the country .
he is all natural that of the committees are a interest for some departments to of the programs .
also , he is logical of study the budget of this Department for know if the programs in question conforming or not the purpose of the bill regarding the Department in question .
he is relevant for the Committee of the fisheries of to a motion to of receive the order of the Senate for proceed to a study , if the - this includes in even time of the elements financial regarding this Department .
the mandate over by the Rules to the Committee of the Finance national is completely different .
in this who with the studies possessing a interest national , he there has always a question financial , and he would important of not not - to the committees the possible of the study .
the Hon. the Speaker :
hon. Senator Murray , you have already took the speak .
have - you the intention of propose your motion and of adjourn the debate ?
the Senator Murray :
your Hon. , if you are prepared to to a decision or to say that you will take the question in advisement , let - we that .
the Hon. the Speaker :
I like , if you the let , to a comment .
the practice has was of refer the Estimates of the Estimates to some committees .
I believe that we the have already fact to the over of this session in the case of the languages official .
the budget of the Library of the Parliament has also was referred to a Committee .
when I was member of committees , he would often , if I me recall well , that a Committee who wanted see the mandate expanded ask that be him somatotropin the budget of the Estimates .
that him give any how of to this that he wanted in the Department , without other referred of the on of the Senate .
this not is can - be not a good practice , but I know that be there has had use by the past .
the senators can in this case one this that they want to the about of the Department .
the practice current allows only to the committees of to the questions who their are renvoyées .
the way of proceed is a question that only the Senate can with .
however , he there a precedent .
the Senator Carstairs :
your Hon. , we could can - be with this question of the way next : we could ask to the Senator Robichaud of withdraw his motion of amendment ; we could then adopt the motion to to refer the budget of the Estimates to the Committee of the Finance national ; then we could ask the leave of to to the motions , this who would to the Senator Robichaud of propose that the budget of the Estimates of Fisheries and Oceans be examined by the Committee of the fisheries .
this by , we not affaiblirions not the mandate of the Committee national of the Finance , but we acquiesce to the Committee of the fisheries the power of study the budget of the Estimates of Fisheries and Oceans .
I not know not if this is that a way of the upon of the dilemma , but this could well in be a .
the Senator Murray :
honourable senators , I not see not why we not could not act of the so .
the hon. Eymard G . Corbin :
honourable senators , I will look a senior of - in the cogs .
the Committee of the Affairs foreign has also a interest in this question and I move the adjournment of the debate .
( on the motion of the Senator Corbin , the debate is adjourned . )
Finance national
Authorized to the Committee of according his deliberations by of the means electronic
the hon. Lowell Murray , pursuant to the notice of the 1 December 99 , move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Finance national be authorized to to the with of his deliberations public by the media of information Electronic , in disruption the least possible his business .
( the motion is agreed . )
Authorized to the Committee of Services of the staff
the hon. Lowell Murray , pursuant to the notice du1er December 99 , move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Finance national be authorized to clerical the services of counsel legal , of staff technical , of employees of office and of other people to the need , for help the Committee to to the bills of bill , the substance of these the and the forecasts who him have was déférées .
( the motion is agreed . )
adjournment
leave to was granted of to to the Notice of motion of the government :
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the ( 58 ( 1 ) p.m. ) of the Rules , I move :
that , when the Senate the adjourns today today , this be to Monday next , the 6 December 99 , to 16 p.m. .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the leave is - it granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
( the Senate the adjourned to the Monday 6 December 99 , to 16 p.m. . )
debates of the Senate ( Hansard )
wondering Session , Session st ,
volume 6,401 , Issue 16
the Monday 6 December 99
the hon. Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker
table of the Contents
statements ' '
the Day national of commémoration
the tenth anniversary of the tragedy of the École polytechnique
the Nova - Nova
the four - ninety - second anniversary of the explosion of Halifax
statistics Canada
the data of census - - origin ethnic " Canadian " - - effect on the opportunities of marketing
Affairs routine
bill of bill on the protection of the information personal and the documents electronic
Tabled of the report of the Committee on the part 1
Tabled of the report of the Committee on the parties 2 to 5
transport and Communications
notice of motion Motion the Committee to to the Electronic of his deliberations by the media of information electronic
Affairs Social , Science and Technology
notice of motion Motion the Committee to study the of of the system of health
the rights of the human and the conflict multiethniques
notice of inquiry
the data of the census
Presented of Petitions
PERIOD PERIOD question
the Defence national
the Timor oriental - - of of the helicopters Sea King
the justice
the possible of amend the Code criminal relatively to the harassment criminal - - influence of the bill of bill S - 6
the transport
the regulatory of a requires monopoly in the sector of the transportation Air of travellers - Position policy government
the v. of the operations of the company air InterCanadien - - service to the small communities
the regulatory of a requires monopoly in the sector of the transportation Air of the travellers - Position policy government
the trade international
the failure of the discussions to the Organization World of the trade - - grants agricultural of the States members - - assistance to the farmers Canadian .
response Senate to a question orale
the health
the regulatory of the products of équarrissage - Position policy of the government
the business of the Senate
use to the Rules - Ruling of the Speaker
order DAY THE
bill of bill on the protection of the information personal and the documents electronic
second Reading
referred to the Committee
motion to blundering to the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology of scinder the bill of bill in two - Adjourned of the debate
the Act on the stopped judicial
bill of bill Amend - Report of the Committee - Adjourned of the debate
the Union Monetary European
the report of the Committee of the Affairs foreign on the study - Stands of the debate
the SENATE
the Monday 6 December 99
the Senate is met to 16 p.m. , the Speaker the to the Chair .
prayers .
the Day national of commémoration
the tenth anniversary of the tragedy of the École polytechnique
the hon. Joyce Fairbairn :
honourable senators , in me by here today today , I was very sad to the s that he there has 10 years already , 14 young women étudiantes of the École polytechnique of the University of Montreal have was driving by a young about armé to the over of a after - afternoon well plain .
honourable colleagues , I am particularly sad to the s that despite the had and the disgust that this tragedy has occur , the broader publicity who in has was made and the education of the public to this about , the violence against the women and the children continues of at to the country and , to the world .
, the least 51p. per of all the women Canadian of more of 16 years have fact the experience of to the least a incident of this that the Code criminal its as of the violence physical or sexual , and the abuse them are close de10p. per of all the crimes of violence to the country .
we have progressé to the over of the 10 past years , through to good number of advocates staunchest , of the two sides of the Senate , and I think particularly to of the women as her the Senator Sheila Finestone , former - Minister of the Condition " .
we have also fact of the progress through to a number of more in more great of colleagues and of friends masculins who the are " to support the fight against the violence .
we have amended the laws .
the campaigns of education the continuing and terms profit of this day national of commémoration .
however , honourable senators , I believe that we not have not still succeeded to reduce of way serious the intolerance , the poverty , the lack of believe of itself and of understanding human who used of - of incubation to the violence .
they have was persons because that this was of the women and , fact still more unplanned in him , because that he the saw as of the féministes .
, the over of the years , I have seconded of the women commeSuzanne é - Edward , the even of a of the young victims , Anne - Marie ; Heidi Rathjen , étudiante and friend of good number of the daughters driving ; and Wendy Cukier , who has contributed to the implementation on at of the Coalition for the control of the weapons .
of many colleagues of the House from of all the parties have worked to this matter important .
this was a enormous croisade public which the success the mesurera in last analysis when the attitudes changeront and that the statistics will régressé .
he there will of the progress when the cellule é to the within of our society and the system who the support find a way of inculquer to the children of the values harm on the kindness and the generosity and not on a further of War and of violence human and on the acquiescement muet that which the difficulty who is fact behind of the doors closes not must not preoccupied a country .
I like say to Suzanne é - Edward and to all the other members of the families who have a daughter or a sister which we commémorons today today the remember that we zero well on the seaway of the success in évoquant the memory of the their .
we not can there come that in finding the resources , the ' and the alliances between men and women of our society who will of reduce the haine , the frustration and the fear .
honourable senators , we are many too lents to we in with .
we must certainly to the memory of the 14 young daughters who sending in peace to Montreal since 1989 and to the thousands of other victims of our society of increase the effort Special who will of chamber this work as now .
the hon. Erminie J . Cohen :
honourable senators , I rise today today to the opportunity of the Day national of commémoration and of action against the violence made to the women .
this is today today the tenth anniversary of the killing of Montreal .
the 6 December 99 has was a time essential in the history of the Canada .
this horrific carnage who has took 20 minutes is considered as the worse killing known made in a only day and he has was the day the more dark of our history .
this crime of haine has drew the attention on the victims of the violence part against the women in as that such , this who the numbers .
the killing has shown to the women and to the men that the violence against the women is a énigme well real and threatening to the within of a society who the enorgueillit of be civilisée and linked .
the Canadians not are more in legislation of argue that of the crimes of haine of this such not the produced that in our neighbours of the south .
unfortunately , the violence against the women continues of be a reality to the Canada .
of the épouses , of the mothers , of the daughters , of the kindred and of the her are breached , agressées and assassinées all the days .
this is also a fact that the authors of these crimes are generally of the men .
this are of the maris , of the spouse , of the neighbours and of the best friends .
the status social or the situation economic any little .
the men and the women must the rise against this situation disgraceful .
these young women who had any their life to live illustrate many better that that .
today today , we must not only we remind of they and of the other victims of violence , but also we Services to new to to a term to this terrible scourge .
the 6 December 99 deserves a reflection national on a outbreak who tragedy still our society .
in all the country , of the ceremonies have place for honour the 14 young women who have seen and their life écourtée .
not forget that this is our responsibility to all in the society of eliminate all the types of violence across .
honourable senators , the violence is a problem of society which we must all we deal , that he the whether of the violence racist , of the violence é , of the violence made to the children , of the violence against the women and against the members of minorities ethnic or the gais and lesbiennes .
a new phenomenon is wished : the violence in the over of school .
it is very widespread to the hour current and it is totally unacceptable in a society civil .
this is a serious problem that all the Canadians must help to eliminate .
the hon. Shirley Maheu :
honourable senators , I to take the speak today today for out the sad and famous tenth anniversary of the tragedy of the École polytechnique of Montreal .
we we souviendrons that the 6 December 1989,14 young women have lost the life to the hands of a man who not had that a purpose : killing of the women .
the act of haine has one all the Canadians and has changed the way which many of between we meddling the violence against the women .
this is for this reason that each year since 1991 , we we memories of this tragedy .
this is also for this reason that the 6 December has was appropriately as the Day national of commémoration and of action against the violence part against the women .
this killing we has fact take conscience that several may were victims of violence and that a such situation was unacceptable .
of many measures have was taken to of refute this problem , but he rest still many to to .
I to also say to the parents and friends of Barbara Daigneault , Natalie Croteau , Hélène Colgan , Sonia Pelletier , Anne - Marie Lemay , celebrating St. - Arnault , Geneviève Bergeron , Maud Haviernick , Michèle Richard , celebrating Turcotte , Maryse Leclair , Anne - Marie Edward , Maryse Laganière and Barbara Marie Klueznick Widajewicz that those - this not will never studiously and that we take the means necessary for that of such events not the occur more .
the hon. Sharon Carstairs :
he not is not sufficient of we remember of these women .
we must also work for we ensure that a such tragedy not can never the making .
they had about .
they have said that this such of something not could the produce to the Canada , and yet , this such of something is came to the Canada .
the life is - it better to the Canada that it not the was he there has 10 years ?
and particularly , the life is - it better for the women , who were the target during of this attack ?
this that we know with certainty , this is that the number of women who are of the studies of " has increased of way " , and this is a something positive .
we know that the police of Montreal has reviewed his procedures of intervention and that that has took the police in of other city of the country to so the their .
the 6 December , of the ceremonies have place across in our country , not only to Montreal , but also in my city , Winnipeg , and that in of other cities of the Canada of the Western , of the East and of the Atlantic .
of the talks of action are organized to of eliminate the violence made to the women .
he there has a Campagne of the Ruban white , and I am very pleased of see that of many senators to the House arborent today today a boots white .
all that is extremely important .
honourable senators , as many of between you the know , the year last , the " Prairie Diversity Patron " has was created for fund the centre " Résoudre " , which the seat is to the Manitoba .
is a example of the results positive who should receive of a announcement as the - this .
the hon. é - A .
honourable senators , we commémorons today today a anniversary tragic and sad .
in effect , the 6 December 1989 , a man , é Lépine , assassinait 14 women .
he the has driving because that they were of the women .
the École polytechnique , to Montreal , has was the into of this tragedy situation .
yesterday , a one commemorative has was exposed to the memory of the victims .
this tragedy défie the entendement .
we must continue our reflection on the causes deep of this violence .
this is why we must to all this who is possible for try of the prevent , in beginning by to of the Breast with of the people who this of the unrest seriously of behaviour .
each level of government , each in his an , must speak .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , today today in the tenth anniversary of the death of the 14 women assassinées to the École polytechnique of Montreal , the 6 December 1989 .
I know that I me am the relates - speak of all the senators when I states that we not forget not this tragedy and that we compatissons with the families and the friends of these women , and with all the other people who have was marquées by this tragedy .
this sad anniversary must we give to reflect .
I like you remind the about held by the hon. Royce Frith le1er February 1990 , and indicated in the Hansard of this day - that , when he has drew the attention of the Senate on the violence made to the women in the society Canadian .
we continue to work for the Elimination of the violence made to the women .
I applaud to the efforts of several groups who have high the conscience global and who have worked for obtain of the changes .
I applaud to the efforts of my friends parliamentarians who have worked in view of eliminate the violence made to the women by the Adopted of the Act on the control of the weapons to gun , the Elimination of the Defence of intoxication volunteered in the framework of the crimes violent , the New of the provisions of the Code criminal provisions to the Offenders to risk high and to well of other ways .
the Senator Frith had reason of the ask the he not the was not of a act haphazard isolated , but rather of the symptoms of a problem social more deep .
the been of the names des14 women to the cuff of the one of the 6 December 1989 to Montreal yesterday they the importance of the question .
the letters gravées in the steel and the - are conçues of such way that he must to a effort for déchiffrer the names .
this not is not accidentel .
the one has was and thought for that the names of these women the day in our conscience and that their history not be never overlooked .
, this step of our history , I you urge , honourable senators , to reflect to the events of the 6 December 1989 and to to this that you can for that we are and , in the legislation where we not the have not , that we we efforcions of have a society where mild the respect and the harmony between the men and the women .
the hon. Marisa Barth Ferretti :
honourable senators , the of Montreal , you can understand how the remember of this event fulfilling my soul of sadness .
the 6 December will gravé in the memory of the Canadians since this is in this day that we commémorons together , in the more great sadness , the death tragic of 14 young women who have lost the life to the on of a act of violence nonsense .
, the opportunity of the tenth anniversary of the tragedy of the École polytechnique of Montreal , I you urge not only to condemn the violence , of where that it come , what that be the origin , I you urge also to reflect on the causes of a act also despair who has as secoué our society Canadian and Quebec .
I am sure that the 14 victims of the École polytechnique , which we love today today the memory , we inviteraient to make of the actions more long who are change the over of the things .
, as of example , we must stop of we quereller to about of the Act on the control of the weapons to gun , because the fusil Mini - 14 used he there has 10 years not is always not banned by the bill .
this weapon to gun not will can - be not déclarée illégale before the 1 January 03 .
we not can not bring to the life the 14 victims of the École polytechnique .
the worse inequity , if we there réfléchissons well , is the Warsaw by those who the believe abandoned by the society .
in memory of all the victims of actions criminals , seek to find a solution to the causes of the poverty , seek to inevitable the pain and the only , who are the more often the enemies sources of the violence .
the hon. Mira Spivak :
honourable senators , he there has 10 years today today , little after 17 p.m. , a young woman tremblait stand in the salon of the students of the École polytechnique of Montreal , they before it the seat of a chaise brisée in as of Columbians while that retentissaient the minuses of fusil more far in the corridor .
by the on , Ms Rathjen has fact someone something of remarkable .
shy and nerveuse before a myriad , it the is however adjourned few weeks more later before the Congress Canadian of the students in engineering for to a petition to of clamour a bill prevented to the Political of would of the weapons of assaut as those who had was used against his her .
is this that it has said :
I have spoke to the parents of the victims .
they held to this that human not giving this who is came to their daughters and they want desperately that someone something of good ressorte of all that - someone something who they our society more sure .
after have from the had , it has agreed a employment in engineering to Courtois Canada , but it the has left six months more later for struggle to full time in favour of the control of the weapons to gun .
with Wendy Cukier , it has based the Coalition for the control of the weapons to gun and the rest , as be said , this is of the history - history to which has also in the Senate .
of many changes have skin of the work of Mmes Rathjen and Cukier - well course , a bill on the control of the weapons to gun .
today today , then that we memories this loss of lives tragic to Montreal , he is timely of to tribute to the survivante who has fact a difference .
the Nova - Nova
the four - ninety - second anniversary of the explosion of Halifax
the hon. J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , this is in effect a day sad for the Canada .
I like to here to the comments who have was made to the about of the tragedy who the is has to Montreal , he there has 10 years .
I draw also the attention of the Senate on a other tragedy very sad who the is has to this date - this .
today today in the four - ninety - second anniversary of the explosion of Halifax .
even if this explosion not seemed not directly be linked to the War , this is because that be had need of equipment of War that be has made to the port of Halifax of the products who have changed tragiquement the life of a very great number of our fellow , this day - that .
the facts on the explosion are well what .
the ship belge Imo and the ship French Les Blanc , who from of the no , are wars in collision in the port .
the bridge of the Les Blanc was responsible of fûts thin who contenaient of the benzol , a s extremely inflammable who , when mêlée to of the stupid , form a astonishing terrible .
of the fire have known to on of the Les Blanc and the crew has forsaken the ship .
of the men of crew of the HMCS Niobe and of the NSM Highflyer have tried in avail of cutting the fire .
ninety and a minutes more later , little after 9 p.m. of the morning , the take of 2 750 tonnes of stupid of the Les Blanc has took gun , entraînant the worse explosion caused by the man in any the history .
the déflagration has was heard until in the Island - Edward - Prince - Edward , and the ships who were in sea have have the movement of the waves .
the - part North of Halifax and of Dartmouth has was having by a explosion of a magnitude quasi nuclear .
in the houses rasées , the cuisinières and the would have enflammé this that he former of the structures délabrées , and of the fire were divisive in any the city .
the storm glaciale who has followed has was still worse for the without - from and the survivors hébétés .
on a public urbanized of 50 . people , more of 1 higher are 116 and 9 . have was fails .
someone 13 500 vessels have was rasés and 6 . people are demeurées without from .
be the remind still this tragedy incredible in our province .
a commémoration very appropriate the is déroulée to the rise of the sun , this morning , to Halifax .
, the time where we we unissons for remind to our remember the women who have lost the life of way if tragic to Montreal , to this even date , I ask to the honourable senators of the remind also the loss tragic of the men , of the women and of the children in the explosion of Halifax .
statistics Canada
the data of census - - origin ethnic " Canadian " - - effect on the opportunities of marketing
the hon. Lorna Milne :
honourable senators , on a about completely different and many more léger , I have learned recently of the Opposition and of the period of the questions to read the newspapers of the morning many more carefully .
this that I have discovered he there has a week me based a statement rather that a question , and a statement of indignation .
of after the National Financial , a debate is in over to Statistics Canada on the question of know the he must to to the polled to the questionnaire of the census of at the mention " Canadian " to the Order of the origin ethnic .
this privilege we has was " rather to against - heart for the first time in 1991 .
in 1996 , the good sense the had for to Statistics Canada , and " Canadian " Role among the examples of origin ethnic .
I i that many of between we are in the even case that I and not can not define their origins ethnic by a only word .
as the most of the people which the family is established to the Canada since more of a generation not can revendiquer a simple origin ethnic , I have need of assistance of the on of my colleagues senators .
I refuses of accept the phrase " bâtarde " .
my history of the side paternel are , by order alphabétique , German , English , écossais and irlandais and that a lady always vaguement her who was probably her .
of the other side , my mother is of AD " think " British .
not forget not that he must hear by AD think British a good mixture of Pictes and of Celtes , 300 years of occupation Roman - this who ask probably the chevelure black and the Grits olivâtre of my mother - without speak of the waves successives of Angles , of Jutes , of Saxons , of Cabot in maraude and of Normands conquérants .
two of my grandchildren - children have of the from European who are came in America of the North to the beginning of the XVIIe century .
fifteen generations of this family are valour and have up on our mainland .
who therefore are we ?
of the liver haché ?
how must - we we describe we - same ?
I believe that we are of proud Canadians of origins abiding characteristically Canadian .
of the Senators :
hear !
the Senator Milne :
I states that I am a CIBC typical and Statistics Canada should have shame of even consider to choose the benefits of the marketing to the backs of the freedom of choice who allows to the Canadians of the describe as they the want .
what shame !
Affairs routine
bill of bill on the protection of the information personal and the documents electronic
Tabled of the report of the Committee on the part 1
the hon. Michael Kirby :
honourable senators , I have the honour of table the second report of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology to on the part 1 of the bill of bill C - 6 , Act to to facilitate and to promote the trade Electronic in perpetuate the information personal collected , used or releases in some circumstances , in for the use of means electronic for bring or like of the information and of the transactions and in amend the Act on the evidence to the Canada , the Act on the were regulatory and the Act on the review of the laws .
Tabled of the report of the Committee on the parties 2 to 5
the hon. Michael Kirby :
honourable senators , I have the honour of table the third report of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology to on the parties 2 to 5 of the bill of bill C - 6 , Act to to facilitate and to promote the trade Electronic in perpetuate the information personal collected , used or releases in some circumstances , in for the use of means electronic for bring or like of the information and of the transactions and in amend the Act on the evidence to the Canada , the Act on the were regulatory and the Act on the review of the laws .
transport and Communications
notice of motion Motion the Committee to to the Electronic of his deliberations by the media of information electronic
the hon. Lise Bacon :
honourable senators , I give notice that Tuesday , the 7 December 99 , I move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the transport and of the Communications be authorized to to the Electronic of his deliberations public by the media of information electronic , of manner to him the least possible his business .
notice of motion Motion the comitéà clerical of the services
the hon. Lise Bacon :
honourable senators , I give notice that Tuesday , the 7 December 99 , I move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the transport and of the Communications be authorized to clerical the services of counsel , technical , employees of office or other elements necessary for to the bills of bill , the substance of bills of bill and the forecasts budget who him have was referred .
Affairs Social , Science and Technology
notice of motion Motion the Committee to study the of of the system of health
the hon. Michael Kirby :
honourable senators , I give notice that , the Tuesday 7 December , I move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology be authorized to to for in to report the of of the system of health to the Canada .
more particularly , that the Committee be authorized to to :
has ) - principles basic on which is based the system public of health to the Canada ;
b ) - historic of the system of health to the Canada ;
c ) - systems of health public in of other country ;
d ) - system of health to the Canada - pressure and on ;
e ) - role of the government federal in the system of health to the Canada ;
that the Committee its the report final to the more later 14 December 2001 ; and
that the Committee be authorized , by derogation to the rules usuelles , to table all report with of the Clerk of the Senate if the Senate not seat not to this time - that ; and that the report be being have was tabled to the Senate .
the rights of the human and the conflict multiethniques
notice of inquiry
the hon. ë A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I give notice that , the Thursday 9 December , I call the attention of the Senate on the question of the rights of the human and of the conflict multiethniques .
the data of the census
Presented of Petitions
the hon. Lorna Milne :
honourable senators , I have the honour of to a petition to 139 signatures who have was allow to the over of the was last by of the members of the Bayside s Writers Society Museum and Archives .
it said this :
we , soussignés , we to express our concern to the about of the decision taken by Statistics Canada of not not give the data of the census of 1911 and of the marked ultérieurs to the Archives national for that they be with to the clause of the public to the across of 92 years , as he and provided by the section 6 of the Rules on the protection of the information personal .
we wish have access to all the data of the marked and power continue of use these would resources for study our roots , we information on our from and write this that we know of them in the stories of family Canada to our children and to our grandchildren - children .
we feel that that is important for our values Social and that the heritage Canadian the in will enriched .
PERIOD PERIOD question
the Defence national
the Timor oriental - - of of the helicopters Sea King
the hon. J . Michael Forrestall :
the a of them has should - well involontairement , I poured - to a amerrissage forced and a other has known of other ennuis .
the Minister can - he we say if these two aircraft are to new , particularly , who has was forced of amerrir ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I like all of first to tribute to the jurisdiction of the members of the crew of the helicopter .
they have should to opposite to a problem Operational , be the room of amerrissage to the broad of the coasts of the Timor oriental .
fortunately , they have succeeded the room in any security .
after a implementation to the point dissent of a approximately of minutes , they have could décoller and the to to good port .
the helicopter Sea King , as the hon. Senator the knows without doubt , has was designed of way to power , if necessary , the for also easily on the water that on land .
he is being for his stability during of this such of room .
I not would not until to say that this amerrissage has was wanted .
he the was well course of a reaction to a problem dissent , but the situation has was maîtrisée to the perfect by the crew .
the apparatus was designed for to opposite to this such of incident , and the all has was has relatively quickly , that given of the circumstances .
the Senator Forrestall :
honourable senators , I not like not one this that said the Minister , because that could be embarrassant .
the Sea King not is not for to operate on the water .
he fleet , but all to the more .
I not Chronicle not necessarily of question on the of of operating .
these aircraft not voleraient not the they not were not in of of operate and the they not were not pilotés by of the people very competent and very conscientious .
can - be not have - I not was enough clear in asking my question .
the Minister can - he me say if this Sea King - that is in of of operate .
if this is the case , will he power continue his mission ?
the second Sea King has he known of the problems operational or of Availability during the time to the Timor oriental ?
in particular , the apparatus who has made a amerrissage forced can he steal of new ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , that the information that I have , when the helicopter has amerri , of the further have immediately was forwarded of the HMCS Protecteur .
the crew of the apparatus has in fact redémarré the drives after about 10 minutes , the helicopter has décollé and the is then asked to the airport of Dili .
a team of technical has then was sent to the airport for , that the information that I have , determine , the case if , the relates of the damage or the need of proceed to of the upkeep .
as this is the case in this such of incident of flight , a inquiry on the security of the prohibit has was business .
for the time , I not am not in legislation of give to the Senator the results of this inquiry or of him say if it is always in over .
the justice
the possible of amend the Code criminal relatively to the harassment criminal - - influence of the bill of bill S - 6
the hon. ë A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I believe understand that a colleague of the Leader of the government , to know her the Minister of the Justice , has our publicly the intention of see to this that of the changes be made to the Code criminal relatively to the harassment criminal .
of this side - this of the Senate , we are puzzling of know what are the policy and the intention of the government to this regard .
more specifically , the Leader can - he confirm that the Minister of the Justice incorporera in the bill of bill first the provisions of the bill of bill S - 6 , a bill of bill which the interest many , including , the Senator Oliver ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I not have not of details precise for the moment .
I am sure that her the Minister of the Justice is to the fact of the bill of bill of the Senator Oliver .
as to the nature exactly of the bill of bill that it will to the Parliament , I would expect until to this time - that .
I speak can - be provide then more of details .
the transport
the regulatory of a requires monopoly in the sector of the transportation Air of travellers - Position policy government
the hon. Lowell Murray :
honourable senators , my question to the Leader of the government to the Senate with the policy government to the regard of the monopoly who threat of the dramatically in the sector Canadian of the transportation Air of travellers .
the Minister of the Transport seems say that he hope and that that a or several other businesses with in time timely the join to the sector and create of the competition .
between - time , he am to regulate more strictly the sector and it hear that the government will always the power of act in case of price predatory .
this that I to know , to the further , this is where in is the policy government .
this not is surely not the last word .
I not like not more that anyone the regulatory , but we will in a situation where he there will virtually a monopoly in this sector for a period indéfinie .
in make , he will required regulate of new the sector .
the business not can not be Cabinet to withdraw of the services , to the and , or to where his price as it the will .
who said monopoly said new regulatory .
the Leader of the government to the Senate can - he we give the insurance that the question of know the he must reréglementer the new monopoly not has not was factual and that the government will this responsibility to the seriously and that he not will not evidence of complaisance in be a policy low as the Mr. Collenette has proposed to the over of the interview that he has given recently to the media ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
I believe , honourable senators , that the commitment of the government relatively to the questions raised by the Senator has was expressed clear by the Minister and repeatedly by I in this chamber .
nothing not has still was decided .
as the Senator the knows , in few days , the shareholders of the a of the carriers air from to the vote on the offer who their has was Before .
I am therefore to me deal for the time , because that could be considered as a statement influant on this decision .
however , I then say that the Minister has statement very clear the five objectives of the policy of the government , to know the protection of the consumers against the price insisting , the - of the services to the small communities , the protection of the rights and of the concerns of the employees , the - of the competition and , course , the control Canadian work .
the government and the Minister of the Transport are profoundly to apply these principles .
for the hour , he rest of the points to with in the sector private , but these principles not changeront not .
they will the key of voûte of the policy government in this sector .
the Senator Murray :
I thank the Leader of the government for his response and the point of the conditions contained by the colleague , Mr. Collenette .
I believe that the people of Air Canada have took knowledge of a array of report - after a identifies and can - be the is - he of a report informal - of a Committee of the House of the Commons who formula some recommendations as to the regime that the government should to in place .
the chairman of Air Canada said to the government and to the Parliament this that he is prepared to accept .
I am struck by the much between the attitude intransigeante of Air Canada , who we said this that it acceptance and this that it not acceptance not , and the attitude rather docile and passive of the Minister of the Transport .
what that he in be , we will in time and place .
the Senator Boudreau :
when the be has asked to the Minister what measures the government insolvent for ensure the respect of the objectives of the policy and who would respect this policy , he has answered clear that the parliamentarians , the Board of the competition , the Board of the transport of the Canada , the Minister of the Transport and that the Governor in board joueraient a role .
, this step - this , the Committee of the Senate and , of the House of the Commons have all two examined the question .
I am sure that they have fact a excellent work and that the Minister will seriously that of their findings .
he not fact no doubt that the chairman of Air Canada want express his opinions and I am sure that the Minister in will that also .
however , the decisions Strategy and the structure final will service of the principles that I have situations to the intention of the honourable senators .
the hon. J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , the Leader of the government to the Senate is - he in are of say that he is possible that the government based to to a industry air réglementée to the Canada ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , for the moment , the process following the over .
the sector private must take of the decisions very serious , and I think that we should expect that these decisions be taken .
they the will under little , and we not should not speak or attempt of influer of someone way that this be on the decisions that very of the special acted their rights to as of shareholders .
I am very prudent to this about .
however , for the moment , the government has statement the principles worry on which the support any policy who will RFP .
, my notice , this is to the Minister of the Transport that he will , to a date later , of determine exactly how these principles will ' in application .
the v. of the operations of the company air InterCanadien - - service to the small communities
the hon. ë A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , the Minister continues of repeat the five principles out by the colleague , the Minister of the Transport , the a of them the the service to the small communities .
the v. of the operations of InterCanadien has had of the impact on of small communities of the region of where the hon. Senator is placed .
the Minister can - he say to the Senate how of Airports of the Canada Atlantic we desservis only by InterCanadien not are more desservis now ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I thank the Senator of his question .
I have consulted quickly my notes , but if I me recall well , he is question of three Airports .
the Senator Kinsella :
the Leader can - he the appoint ?
the Senator Boudreau :
he there in has two to the New - Brunswick , that the hon. Senator knows surely very well , and a to Newfoundland - Newfoundland .
the Senator Kinsella :
our colleague , the hon. Senator Cochrane , has has the other day that the airport of Stephenville and two Airports of the North - is of the New - Brunswick were of the number .
the public of Stephenville and of the North - is of the New - Brunswick not that it not in the spirit of the government ?
the Senator Boudreau :
I believe understand that to the hour current all the communities of the Canada Atlantic , to the exception of these three communities , are expressed by a other transporteur .
these three communities , be Stephenville , to Newfoundland - Newfoundland , and Charlo and Chatham , to the New - Brunswick , are expressed by Air Scotia to from of Bathurst .
as to Stephenville , his people must been the to to the centre of Deer Lake , located to about 113 kilometres of their community .
still that , this not is not the ideal , but hope that this will " .
I must attention that the service of transportation Air to Stephenville possession of the problems before even the events recent .
the Senator Forrestall :
that say of Sydney ?
the regulatory of a requires monopoly in the sector of the transportation Air of the travellers - Position policy government
the hon. Lowell Murray :
honourable senators , I have a last question supplementary that I like for in the purpose of to the point and the light on this question .
the Minister can - he ensure to the Senate that the government not tolérera not a monopoly not réglementé in the sector of the transportation Air of the travellers ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
I then say to the honourable senators that the government plan the interests that has clear situations the Minister of the Transport in his policy .
the trade international
the failure of the discussions to the Organization World of the trade - - grants agricultural of the States members - - assistance to the farmers Canadian .
the hon. A . Raynell Andreychuk :
honourable senators , the of that the negotiations of the WTO have failed in end of week and that , of any obviously , the question of the agriculture concern our some senators , I remind that the Minister of the Agriculture , the Leader of the government to the Senate , of other ministers and the Prime Minister have all said that , for help the farmers Canadian , he was absolutely eliminate the grants excessive that do the Americans and particularly the Europeans to their farmers .
he seems now that this objective not will not reached before long .
what is the Position of alternative of the government for help the farmers and how will he refute the grants excessive who exist in the systems European and American ?
he appear that he not has now not of strategy for come in assistance to the farmers of the Western .
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , he is clear for all the world that the results obtained to Miami in this who with the question of the grants not are not there and that the matter not has not progressé as we the had hoped .
however , he would false of conclude that the discussions have took end .
the discussions in view of eliminate or of refute the grants awarded by the States - United and the Union European the continuing under the auspices of the WTO .
we hope that the matter will advance and , in fact , he remains a priority primordiale for the Minister and for the government .
the Senator Andreychuck :
honourable senators , I conçois that the negotiations be a priority .
they the are since 1947 .
this that I is difficult to accept , this is that be the him to this that they produced a result who we would for of see the light to the across of the tunnel , and this , for the first time depuis5 or 10 years .
this not is clear not the case .
even if the negotiations the continuing , a solution satisfactorily not come not before a across of time .
that will the government for help the farmers of the Saskatchewan to the light of the fact that the negotiations of the WTO have clearly was brought to more later ?
the government réexaminera he the programs of assistance and of support to the farmers of the Western today today ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I as that these discussions the will under the auspices of the WTO .
the Minister and our government continue of there to the priority that they deserve .
I say also to the Senator that , to the over of discussions that we have liberty , the Minister me has said that the negotiations on the renewal of the programs spouse federal - provincial of security of the income the will and , hope - the , of a way who will the farmers Canadian .
the Senator Andreychuk :
honourable senators , is - this that be raise some questions in with in this who has with to the transportation ?
is - this that be will the question of the costs of transportation for the farmers of the west of the Canada ?
the Senator Boudreau :
, this at - this , I not can not make the substance of the discussions in over between the governments federal and provincial .
I could can - be obtain these information and , if possible , the share with the Senator .
the Senator Andreychuk :
I like have these information not wrote , because I believe understand that he there has had of the discussions with the companies pipeline for limit the profits , if I can use this term , or the surplus that they terms of the transportation of the Wheat and of the other products agricultural .
I like a response written on any the policy of the transport to the Canada .
the Senator Boudreau :
I me commitment to provide the response written the more detailed possible .
response Senate to a question orale
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I have the response Senate to a question that the hon. Senator Spivak has raised the 17 November 99 to the Senate to the about of the regulatory of the products of équarrissage .
the health
the regulatory of the products of équarrissage - Position policy of the government
( response to the question raised by the hon. Mira Spivak the 17 November 99 )
the government federal has the powers required for regulate the is of the products équarris and the industry of the équarrissage .
in fact , all the Contents grasses and all the tourteaux of protein for to be used in of the food of the animals are unregulated under the regime of the Act Current to the food of the cattle .
the products équarris must be ensure to the standards determined in the Rules on the food of the cattle and not can forecast of contaminants who would organisms to the animals or menaceraient the customerdemands of the food .
the institutions of équarrissage are the subject of a inspection Annual who allows of whether the they held the registres taken , apply the measures of control required for avoid the supply fork and étiquettent properly their products .
of the parties of animals hers abattus are since of many years transformées for be ajoutées to of the food of the cattle as sources of protein of high quality .
in April 1996 , the Organization World of the health has recommended that all the country basis that of the meat and of the farine of for of ruminants be data to eat to of the ruminants .
this includes the tested , the moutons and the chèvres , by example .
these measures the reality in the framework of the efforts to to eliminate all the factors of risks what associated to the transmission of the encéphalopathie spongiforme of the tested ( ESB ) or " illness of the cow Mad " .
in 1996 , the Canada has led of extensive consultation of the industries affected who have of place to the tax of the shut Current to the food of the cattle in August 1997 .
since the taken of effect of the shut , the farmers not can more use of " Contents interdites " as ingrédients in the food of the ruminants .
however , the farmers can still use these Contents in the food of the animals not ruminants as the volaille and the porc .
if the Canada has decided of exempt the porc and the volaille of the shut of give of the protein mammaliennes to eat to of the ruminants , this is that no encéphalopathie spongiforme transmissible ( BE ) of origin natural not has was pressing in the porc or the volaille .
in addition , the use continues of these products in the food of the productions and of the volaille pools the need of the incinérer or of the enfouir .
for ensure the regulatory get of the products of équarrissage , the ACIA has by a review of the policy to this regard .
the business of the Senate
use to the Rules - Ruling of the Speaker
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , before that we not emotions to the order of the day , I am prepared to me deal on the question who has was raised by the Senator Corbin to the about of the employment , by the hon. Senator Cools , of the term English " minion " .
I thank the hon. Senator Corbin of have raised the question to the Senate , because the question of the comments who are made to the Senate or to the other place to the about the a of the other and still to the about of the Governor General is important .
the senators must always the keep of use a us who could be blessant for of the people who roles of the positions prestigious .
however , I have read carefully the about of the Senator Corbin on the question .
he has quoted the 9e edition of the Concise Oxford Dictionary for make the means of the term .
he the is of first of a subject loved and sir , of a plucked , of a amoureux or of a amoureuse , of a maîtresse or of a amant , particularly when they are particularly esteemed or that they are préférés , a idol favorite , or the plucked of a sovereign .
however , be said also " or advocate servile " .
the most of the regarding are flatteuses .
I must therefore to as decision that the term " minion " not is not offensive in his means general .
he must however , I the as , to evidence of the more great judgment for avoid all the words offensants to the place of other people or of institutions important to the Canada .
order DAY THE
bill of bill on the protection of the information personal and the documents electronic
second Reading
the order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Kirby , seconded by the hon. Senator Lewis , Honourable to the second Reading of the bill of bill C - 6 , Act to to facilitate and to promote the trade Electronic in perpetuate the information personal collected , used or releases in some circumstances , in for the use of means electronic for bring or like of the information and of the transactions and in amend the Act on the evidence to the Canada , the Act on the were regulatory and the Act on the review of the laws .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I informed the Senate that , if the hon. Senator Kirby at the speak now , the intervention will for effect of closing the debate of second Reading .
the hon. Michael Kirby :
honourable senators , my comments today today will very brief for the simple reason that I have tabled more earlier today today two reports of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology in report with the bill of bill C - 6 .
as the honourable senators the in will , he there has two weeks , this House had decided of suspend the debate of second Reading for that the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology time to the study of the subject of the bill of bill C - 6 , this that we have called we " study pre " .
the results of the hearings and of the deliberations of the Committee on this question the find in the two reports who have was tabled in this House he there about a hour .
I will simply having that the a of these reports recommends of the amendments to the bill of bill C - 6 , amendments who have was adopted to the unanimously by the Committee more earlier today today .
these amendments receive the support of all the members of the Committee .
by therefore , I hope that , if the senators it end to the debate of second Reading of the bill of bill today today and divert the bill of bill to the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology , , - this can the meet tomorrow morning for to the report .
I that then , with the leave of the Séant , initiate the debate on the amendments .
honourable senators , to the place of to the two reports that I have tabled today today , which I move of to the subject as that the Senate will indeed before of the report tomorrow , I like , after these few comments on the conduct of the business to come , closing the debate of second Reading .
the Hon. the Speaker :
pleasure - he to the senators of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed and the bill of bill is read a second time . )
referred to the Committee
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when read - we this bill of bill a third time ?
( on the motion of the Senator Kirby , the bill of bill is referred to the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology . )
motion to blundering to the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology of scinder the bill of bill in two - Adjourned of the debate
the hon. Lowell Murray :
honourable senators , I can hope that you agree that , that the precedents and the literature who are authority , the time indicated for give a blundering to the Committee , this is immediately after the referred of the bill of bill in Committee .
, this regard , I like draw the attention of the Speaker on the motion No. 22 placed , to my behalf since the 24 November and who move of give a blundering to the Committee Senate Standing .
I think that he would appropriate of we in before now and , the case if , I like take the speak .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , he is to the Senate of in decide .
the sixth edition of the Beauchesne is very precise to this about , including the or 684 , which is the text :
the education can be proposed be immediately after the referred of the bill of bill in Committee , be certified under form of motion underscores .
this could therefore be fact all of on , if the Senate is of agreed , or certified .
pleasure - he to the senators of call now the motion placed to the behalf of the Senator Murray ?
the hon. Michael Kirby :
honourable senators , I am all to fact of agreed for that we dealing the question that the Senator Murray wish raise .
that the recorded in the right over of the reports tabled today today and , in the Motion to the express now , we as to the Committee of to a work more comprehensive tomorrow .
I hope that he will of on to the request of the Senator .
the Hon. the Speaker :
pleasure - he to the senators that we tarred of the so ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator Murray :
honourable senators , pursuant to the notice of the 24 November 99 , I move :
that he be of to the Committee Senate Standing which will referred the bill of bill C - 6 the education next :
that he has the power of scinder the bill of bill C - 6 , Act to to facilitate and to promote the trade Electronic in perpetuate the information personal collected , used or releases in some circumstances , in for the use of means electronic for bring or like of the information and of the transactions and in amend the Act on the evidence to the Canada , the Act on the were regulatory and the Act on the review of the laws , in two bills of bill , the Prime the set of the part 1 and of the as 1 with of the by and a clause of into in effect and the second the set of the rest of the bill of bill and of the annexes 2 and 3 with of the by ; that the deliberations on the second bill of bill can be delayed until after the study of the Prime ; that the a or the other of the bills of bill can to the subject of a report to the Senate managed after have was examined ; and that , regardless of the impressive convenient , the Senate give this education not any when after have was before of the bill of bill , even after that the Committee will began the study .
honourable senators , he there has few days , while that we discutions in this chamber of the evolution of the bill of bill C - 6 to the Senate , I have took some commitments to the behalf of the loyal Opposition of Majesty Majesty .
I the have fact with the approval of the leadership of this side - this .
the commitments were essentially that , the he there had a clause of the Committee for original this bill of bill to of take in consideration the concerns expressed , including in the sector of the care of health , we , of our side , would all this that we could , in the legislation of the reasonable , for to adopt in the more brief will a bill of bill amended to that he can be examined by the members before that they not ajournent the House of the Commons for the break of ë .
I rise now for confirm this commitment .
however , this commitment is a problem for the motion .
if I soumettais this motion to a debate and to a vote requires , that could have for effect of delay the Adopted of a bill of bill amended in this chamber and of so to the commitment that I have took more earlier .
I like therefore simply say that I not have not the intention of proceed and .
I will now to few remarks on the question and let hear that , when I will debated , a colleague want can - be simply adjourn the debate .
this is a question important that I have raised .
this bill of bill combine in fact two bills of bill separate .
I had someone on , and I the have can - be always if I can the on , of the quotations of the Minister of the Justice and of officials of the Department of the Industry who - that he there had to the departure two bills of bill who have was combined in a only .
I had the intention of to at these quotations to the comte record .
unfortunately , honourable senators , you someday me believe on speak , because that among all the suffice that I have in with , I not is not the statements made by Ms McLellan and by the officials of the Department of the Industry before the Committee of the House of the Commons during of the review of the bill of bill C - 54 .
Ms McLellan has should very clear that , without would book of the Confidences of the cabinet , Mr. Manley and it had indeed wanted of first to two bills of bill different , but that in reason of the for Parliamentary , they had decided of the combiner in a only .
a lady of the behalf of Stéphanie Perrin , of the Department of the Industry , who has appeared before the Committee of the House of the Commons , and that before , of the Senate he there has little of time , the has confirmed without the Shadows of a doubt .
when the officials of the Department of the Industry have before before the Committee Senate , I their have asked the question , but I not have not from of response clear .
they want well course protect their arrières .
they have has that the bill of bill was part credited of the framework legislative government with the trade Electronic .
they have through the fact that the provisions of the bill of bill on the life privacy will over - beyond of the trade Electronic .
they the apply to the information personal collected in the framework of activities trade , that this be by seaway Electronic or other .
the fact is that the part 1 is a bill of bill in itself .
honourable senators , I have had few reserves to the about of my motion when a sure Ian Lawson has appeared before the Committee .
this is a lawyer of Vancouver and a an recognized of the questions regarding the information personal .
Mr. . Lawson has carried the argument that , constitutionnellement , the part 1 of the bill of bill depends of the part 2 . I not you dérangerai not with this or , of any way I not think not the have here .
I you ask a time of more of me believe on speak .
as you the know , Mr. Tassé , who is a former under - Minister of the Justice , is also a constitutionnaliste .
he not is not exaggeration of say that the argument Mr. Lawson has was réfuté Mr. Tassé .
he we has explained of way detailed and scholarly , as to the as , why the together of the bill of bill and all his provisions are a year legitimate and appropriate of the power of the government federal in s of trade .
I return to this that I I during of the second Reading .
he the is in fact of two bills of bill and not of a only .
be not can not to enter this bill of bill in the category of the bills of bill omnibus because that he contains certainly more of a principle .
we have then a debate in second Reading , a study in Committee , a debate in third Reading and we could all go each in we .
I recognize that this is a démonstration by the absurd , but I hope that it you allows of understand the risk that with a such practice .
other said , be will to the with of the rights of the Parliament in him soumettant a bill of bill made a principle clear statement of such so that the parliamentarians can discuss of his provisions to the light of this principle .
of a point of view practice , to the step of the second Reading , I have expressed the fear that , in the this debate , we accordions many of attention to the part 1 , on the protection of the life privacy , that we jugeons more problems , and not enough to the parties on the trade Electronic , on the ability of the citizens of bring with the agencies of the government federal by of the means electronic and on the effects of the Act on the evidence to the Canada on the use of the Communications electronic by the system judicial .
this are that of the questions extremely serious , but the Committee of the House of the Commons not the has virtually not scrutinized , not more that our own Committee .
honourable senators , he enough of read the third report of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology , tabled more earlier today today , for see this who the is past .
the report said then : " - Committee not has not received enough of evidence on the parties 2 to 5 of the bill of bill for to of the comments to about of the provisions that they as " .
the Committee said however that he appear there a support enough broad to the regard of these parties of the bill of bill .
well well , honourable senators , if , in few months or few years , he appert that the provisions of the parties 2à 5 phones of the problems that human not has repérés or some , then the members of the government and of the Parliament will the air of very fools when the people closely , in rétrospective , the path of this bill of bill to the cabinet and during all the process legislative .
honourable senators , even if I it let my motion for the reasons that I have contained , I wish to this that my colleagues understand to what point the senators of this side - this taking the question to the seriously .
we believe that he must to all in our power for one the government when he its a bill of bill who is in fact two bills of bill , as this is the case here , simply for accommoder those who pertinent the business to the other place .
this are the members of the Opposition of the other place who have should object with effect if that had escaped to the attention of their colleagues .
but that , this is a other history who out still a time the importance of the Senate as House of second review of the decisions of the power executive .
( on the motion of the Senator Kirby , the debate is adjourned . )
the Act on the stopped judicial
bill of bill Amend - Report of the Committee - Adjourned of the debate
the Senate on to the study of the second report of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional ( bill of bill C - 7 , Act amend the Act on the stopped judicial and a other bill in make , with proposals of amendment ) , presented to the Senate the 30 November 99 .
the hon. Lorna Milne :
honourable senators , in as that chairman of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional , I have the honour of to the report on the bill of bill C - 7 , Act amend the Act on the stopped judicial and a other bill in make .
the bill of bill move a sure number of changes to the procedure of preventative scheduled in the Act on the stopped judicial .
he for including a exception to the rule general of not - disclosure of the issues of the people who have from a preventative to the regard of a offence scheduled to the regulations to of to their communication in the framework of the review of the for to a employment who put these people in situation of confidence or of authority by report to of the children or to of the people vulnerable .
the bill of bill is referred with of the proposals of amendment .
before of explain these proposals of amendment , however , I wish to you provide a sure historic of the facts .
in June last , the Solicitor General has appeared before the Committee for to the promotion of the bill of bill then called C - 69 .
all to the long of this Senate and of those who have followed , he is became clear for your Committee that the bill of bill such that some omissions several are .
, the behalf of the Committee , I have wrote to the Solicitor General for him to on of our concerns , to know , including , that we were drastically of see that he not there had no referred deliberately to the fact that the bill of bill is the issues of the offenders sexual réhabilités .
that we inquiétait , in addition , that some elements internal of the bill of bill be whom in the regulation citation the bill of bill .
for our deliberations , we have also discussed acrimonieusement of the elements of policy who under - tend the bill of bill and we we are asked if we apporterions a change basic to the system of preventative , aspect who had was defended by several of our predecessors to the House .
I have also raised this question in the letter that I have material to the Solicitor General .
I not am never to wants the deserves of a something to the human to which he with and I must you attention , honourable senators , that the work of the Committee has was our facility by the cooperation of the Solicitor General .
not only has he answered quickly to our letter , but him - even and his officials have given that of all our concerns and have prepared of the suggestions of amendments on - the - report .
as we not had not the time of to these changes to the opportunity of the session before , of the officials of the office of the Solicitor General have appeared before our Committee the week last to of discuss of new of the bill of bill and of to to the Committee of the proposals of amendments to the bill of bill who are to his concerns .
, the behalf of the Committee , I thank the Solicitor General and his officials of the attention that they have granted to our concerns and of the assistance that they have made in proposing of the improvements to the bill of bill .
the report regarding the bill of bill includes the major amendments following .
first , the regarding of the words " children " and " people vulnerable " just of the regulation to the body of the text of the bill of bill .
the Committee has noted that the term " disability " not is more acceptable in the society of today today .
he not between more in the practice of use this term in a legislation legislative .
second , the word " body " has was added to the section 6 of the bill of bill to that he be well clear that only the offences them would pointed in under of the system proposed .
third , the as of the offences them has was withdrawn of the regulation and insérée in the bill of bill proprement said .
honourable senators , this not is certainly not the first , or the last time , that we apportons of the improvements to a legislation legislative from of the other place .
the changes that your Committee has Regional to the bill of bill C - 7 have for of all to a exception clear , close and limited to the Act on the stopped judicial .
these changes have as the balance between the objectives of the system of preventative and the need of protect the children and of other groups vulnerable in the society .
the hon. A . Raynell Andreychuk :
honourable senators , I support certainly the comments of the Senator Milne .
I for the members of the Committee of the excellent work that they have fact in their review of the bill of bill .
I support the amendments .
I wish however to attention two issues of concern .
the changes that the be move of to to the Act on the stopped judicial in this who with the preventative are the first intrusion important on a point where the public " clear that the preventative , a time granted , interdisait any use later of the former stopped judicial of a human against it .
I me remind that , when I was young lawyer , he has was a sure time for that the public parvienne to understand in what was really the preventative .
I must however express some concern regarding the integrity of the process of preventative .
all to the long of the hearing , the Minister and the officials the are vilifying very aware that this legislation constitute a intrusion in the system of preventative and that it walked can - be of fall or of undermine all the process of preventative .
they have however should that the service of police who would in for of the system utiliserait of the mechanisms of control effective .
well that I one the more great respect for the services of police to the Canada , he responsibility to the government of ensure a review systematic and effective of the process of control of the police .
recently , by report to the Act election , be we has guaranteed that the protection of the information personal would grew .
yet , by inadvertent , all the issues of the semiconductors of the Manitoba have was égarés .
he would unacceptable that the system of preventative not divested not the integrity .
he would inconceivable of not not to a review thorough and of not not maintain the system of indicators .
be not must use , - this that for whether the casiers judicial of people conducts in of the offences of nature sexual .
this who me concern , this is that the systems the détériorent with the time .
when they will to short of resources , the responsible of this system very can - be of the raccourcis may of in threaten the integrity .
a time that be will provided this such of entorses to the rules regarding the preventative , will be trend to be of other reservations to of other for ?
the objective described in the here is very commendable , but he should the act of a case over , and no other bill of bill similar not should be presented .
Ms Patty Bowen , Director administrative of the body Bénévoles Canada , has before before the Committee of the Affairs legal during of the last session .
it has said that this who was the more important , this was that , of the notice of Bénévoles Canada and to the light of research with , the review of for was different of a audit of stopped judicial .
that it , the audit of the casiers judicial has a exercise limited , because the majority of the individuals who will we of bad treatment to a child or to a other human not have never was recognized guilty of a crime .
they not listed therefore not in the system of casiers judicial .
these past years , we have had trend to adopt of the bills of bill who are believe prevalent to the public that the difficulty against which we are of struggle has decreased .
the representatives of Bénévoles Canada and of many other witnesses who have appeared before the Committee have said that the problem just of the selection of the candidates , not of the checks of casiers judicial .
few are the individuals who infligent of bad treatment to of the children or who are to the research of a employment where they will the opportunity of we of bad treatment to of the children and who have already a stopped judicial .
they have acted of way détournée and have , until to now , escaped to the system of justice criminal .
in pareils case , a audit of the stopped judicial not is hardly useful .
I that on the fact that the government , in his this bill of bill , ups to this that he protects the children .
I wish to to tribute to Bénévoles Canada for the process of selection , and that has of other groups as Scouts Canada , who working with of the young and the is with of a process of selection useful .
the children will protected in the legislation where the process of selection will followed .
these two comments the made , I support the bill of bill and amended .
however , I déconseille to the government of speak in the process of preventative .
I attention also to the government that this bill of bill not rapid surely not the children of be molestés by those who are a employment where of the children could be vulnerable .
I believe that the government and the Canadians have the responsibility of be always on the who - subject in this who with the children and that this bill of bill not is that a tool among as of other to their clause .
( on the motion of the Senator Nolin , the debate is adjourned . )
the Union Monetary European
the report of the Committee of the Affairs foreign on the study - Stands of the debate
the hon. Peter A . Stollery :
honourable senators , I like that the study of the fourth report of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign be placed to my behalf .
the Hon. the Speaker :
you pleasure - he that the section be recorded to the behalf of the hon. Senator Stollery ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the section is as . )
( the Senate the adjourned to 14 p.m. tomorrow . )
debates of the Senate ( Hansard )
wondering Session , Session st ,
volume 6,401 , Issue 17
the Tuesday 7 December 99
the hon. Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker
table of the Contents
' ' '
the excellenceM. Farès Bouez
member of Kesrouan to the Parliament libanais
the rights of the human
the process of peace to the Sudan
the violence against the lesbiennes and the gais
the relations States - U.S.
the problems to the positions boundaries
the Ontario
the bill of bill of restructuring regional - Position proposal to to to the city of Ottawa unilingual English
visitor of in
Affairs routine
bill of bill of 99 for the implementation in implement of conventions tax
report of the Committee of the Banking and of the trade
referred of the bill of bill to the Committee of the Affairs foreign
bill of bill on the protection of the information personal and the documents electronic
the report of the Committee
the adjournment
the group Parliamentary Canada - States - United
the conference of the Alliance commercial transfrontalière States - American - Report of the report of the delegation Canadian
his along as senior official Honorary of the Senate to the opportunity of his retirement
the Program of Exchange of pages with the House of the Commons
PERIOD PERIOD question
the transport
the possible of a taken of control of the Airlines air Canadian International by Air Canada - - service to the Airports regional
the Council of the Board
the preparedness in view of the year 2000 - Position possible of a hearing in Committee Whole
the heritage
the League national of hockey - Position possible of a new loterie for help the teams Canadian - - announcement of the Minister
the Affairs Intergovernmental
the Quebec - - conditions future of a referendum - Position date of the announcement by the Prime Minister
the work
the situation criticism of the without - from - - of of Progress of the strategy government
the Affairs foreign
the report of the Council Canadian for the cooperation international - Position recommendation préconisant the institution of a group of work - Position Position of the government
the plan to to establish a policy consistent of assistance foreign
the is of the budget of the assistance foreign
the assujettissement of the assistance foreign to the respect of the rights of the human - Position Position of the government
the business of the Senate
use to the Rules
order DAY THE
the business of the Senate
bill of bill on the protection of the information personal and the documents electronic
Adopted of the report of the Committee
the bill on the stopped judicial
bill of bill Amend - Adopted of the report of the Committee
section Canadian of the Church morave of America
bill of bill private to to amend the bill of incorporation - Second Reading
Energy , environment and resources natural
Authorized to the Committee of Services of the staff and of the adjourn
review of the policy Canadian antidrogues
motion Motion the training of a Committee Senate Special - Adjourned of the debate
fisheries
Authorized to the Committee of study of the questions provisions to the mandate
Authorized to the Committee of Services of the staff
Authorized to the Committee of clerical of the services
the SENATE
the Tuesday 7 December 99
the Senate is met to 14 p.m. , the Speaker the to the Chair .
prayers .
the excellenceM. Farès Bouez
member of Kesrouan to the Parliament libanais
the hon. Pierre De De :
Mr. . the Minister Bouez is the son of the an jurist and Parliamentary Nouhad Bouez and of Ms Jacqueline Bouez , born Debs .
he is the husband of Ms Zalfa Hraoui and they are the happy parents of four children , Rhea , Nouhad , Tarek and Andréa .
holder of a control in right libanais of the University St. - Joseph of Beyrouth , he the her in right French to the Faculty Jean - Moulin of Lyon and fact a time to the University Georgetown of Washington .
this is a great wear for we of accueillirM. Farès Bouez .
he is came to the Canada Sunday the 5 December , and will among we until to the end of the week .
Mr. . Bouez appreciate , during the time to the Canada , the diplomats of the Department of the Affairs foreign who looking the situation to the Middle - East , of even that the senior officials of the Agency Canadian of development international .
, the Parliament , Mr. the Minister Bouez has also of a conference to the Middle East Study Group on the situation to the Middle - East .
he will also a remarks this after - afternoon to the University of Ottawa where he is the guest of the Pritchard , Mr. Marcel é .
he will received also by the Speaker of the Senate , the hon. Gildas Molgat , and appreciate the leadership of the other House of our Parliament .
Mr. . the Minister Bouez visitera , to the over of the time , the Ville of Montreal , where he will received officially by the mayor Pierre Bourque .
he will also of the trade with of the researchers of the Institute of the studies strategic .
he will received by the chairman of the Council of the OACI , the Dr. Assad Kotaite , a an citizen of the Republic libanaise .
during the time in our country , Mr. the Minister Bouez appreciate of the representatives of the community Canadian of origin libanaise .
I like mention the contribution exceptional of the community Canadian of origin libanaise .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , the period of three minutes is completed .
the leave is - it granted to the Senator of continue his statement ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator De De :
honourable senators , the community libanaise is not only very its , it the is also illustrée in all the sectors to the Canada , between other , the education university , the medicine , the right , the Affairs and the high service public Canadian .
be the recalls of the role important that have played two doctors of origin libanaise with of two first ministers of the Quebec .
by - beyond the éloignement geographical who , in truth , the estompe before the for of the village overall , Beyrouth is also it of we that the other cities Canadian .
through to the Technology modern of the telecommunications and to Internet , our two country shared the same values of democracy , of tolerance , of economy Liberal and of pluralisme abundance and cultural .
of more , the presence to the Canada of a community important of origin libanaise is a basic strong and permanent of relations close between our two country .
the Canada support drew the independence , the sovereignty and the integrity territorial of the Lebanon .
of more , the Canada support the resolution 425 of the Council of security and the extension of the authority libanaise on all the territory .
the Canada has received the visit of the chairman of the Republic libanaise to Moncton the was last during of the Summit of the Francophonie who was given to the New - Brunswick .
we have noted with satisfaction that the first visit of the chairman Lahoud in outside of the region of the Middle - East the is déroulée to the Canada .
the Lebanon is of , the only country of the Middle - East who is member to on full of the Francophonie .
of more , the next Summit of the Francophonie , by on to , of Moncton to the New - Brunswick , the will to the Lebanon in 2001 .
honourable senators , the Lebanon expression of the values copies of tolerance , of generosity and of tenacity .
he has - the affres of a War terrible , promue and driven by the whereby foreign that he has vaincues by the courage and the tenacity of his public .
in that , he is a example for the world around .
I like remind also to the chairman of the Parliament libanais , His Vassilev Nabih Berri , and to the chairman of the Group Parliamentary Lebanon - Canada , His Vassilev Farès Bouez , our will of work closely with them to the New of the relations between our two country .
the rights of the human
the hon. Calvin Woodrow Ruck :
honourable senators , he there has more of 200 years , a great movement of émancipation has had place to the within of the as British and of the States - United of America who has for to the black - men , women and children - of be physiquement libérés of the chaînes of the slavery .
yet , in this era enlightened , the black are still considered of after the colour of their peau .
honourable senators , we have fact many of progress since the time of the slavery .
my from were of the esclaves .
today today , we are in a country democratic where of many opportunities the may to we .
the Act on the rights of the human of 1977 has fact many for this who is of help the members of the minorities visible to from party of the benefits and of all this that this great country to to , but , in as that country , we have however of the problems to stay favourite .
I have recommended that together , we terms our efforts to that the people not be more considered of after the colour of their peau , but of after this that they have in the heart .
we were supposed live in some will although exclusively to the members of the minorities visible .
the Act on the rights of the human has changed all that .
we have fact of great progress and he rest many to to , but I am of agreed with those who say that the Canada is the country of the world where he fact the better live .
the process of peace to the Sudan
the hon. LoisM. Wilson :
honourable senators , to the over of the nine the months , he there has had of important developments in the War civil to the Sudan .
the conflict between the North and the south not has not took end and the number of barils of canada products the is increased since the end of the business of implementation in place of the pipeline between the South - Sudan and Port - Saïd , in the North .
the community international , there including the Canada , has administration of the appropriation for fund a modest Secretary composed of four people and based to the Kenya , under the auspices of the Authority governmental for the development , or IGAD .
this initiative African , which the mandate is of negotiate a plan of peace , has the support of the International Partners Forum , which fact part the Canada .
the 26 October 99 , the Department Canadian of the Affairs foreign has announced two appointments - the my , to as of sent Special in the framework of the process of peace to the Sudan , and the of John Harker , to as of ' Special on the questions African .
the two duties are complementary but continuing of the objectives different , pursuant to the policy public of the Canada to the regard of the Sudan .
my mission boss to revigorer the process of peace to the outcome of extensive consultation with of NGOs and of academic Canadian , of members of the community soudanaise to the Canada and of representatives of country brothers who are their support to the process of off , and that of the government and of the Opposition they of the Sudan .
this week , by example , some of between we rencontreronsM. Bethuel Kipligat , a Leader of leadership of the society civil kenyan who working to a process of peace to two followed in view of ensure the reconciliation between the leaders of the as NGOs soudanais of the North and of the south , with the support of Project Ploughshares of Waterloo and of Alternatives of Montreal .
the week next , to Ottawa , I will a meeting avecM . Haruun Ruun and Telar Ring Deng , two representatives of the New Sudan Torture of Churches , who implement to the contribution of the peace and to the implementation in place of solutions to the questions North - South , in cooperation with the IGAD , of even that to the coordination of the development of the Églises in this country ravagé by the War .
the Position of the Canada is nothing of least that the implementation in implement of a plan of peace overall and controlled .
the work revert to revigorer the process of country based on the long term because he not there not of solution miracle .
the policy Canadian is little more complex that his States American in this that it fact place to a dialogue drove with the sector private Canadian .
the he more that the mining oil exacerbe the conflict to the Sudan or give place to of the abuses of the rights of the man , then he will arisen of to in implement of the restrictions to the trade or all other instrument to clause .
only a action quick in favour of a peace equitable to the Sudan will to the public soudanaise of from party of this resources natural .
this is this who ask that the Canada has by to these two appointments complementary and that he seems current to a allure more measured that the seat of the south , by example , for with these questions épineuses .
the violence against the lesbiennes and the gais
the hon. Erminie J . Cohen :
honourable senators , the 7 November 99 , Robert Peterson , student in first year of right to the University of the New - Brunswick to Fredericton , has was crudely falsely then that he detained in him to at later the night .
the agresseur has was lâche in this that he has attaquéM. Peterson of on , him to of the minuses repeated to the face .
this by , he has abreuvé of injures haineuses and homophobes this poor young man who deserves so better .
about two weeks after this abuse , a incident similar the is product in the even Headquarters of the centre .
honourable senators , I rise today today in response to a call to the action initiated by a group of Nova - Brunswickois concerned .
Robert Peterson not is by the Prime homosexuel to be they to as of méchanceté in our streets , and he not will not the last not more - to least that the society Canadian not take Position and not timely his subject disapproved .
this not is that in mild this type of fanatisme and of discrimination that we commencerons to in see the end .
in as that Jewish , this act unmitigated of haine me consterne .
we have should from of the lessons of the Dirnfield of the Holocaust on this that fact the haine to a human , to a family , to a community or to a country .
I is this type of racism and of discrimination sad .
he is appalled that of the people ignorants continue of judge their neighbours in service of their race , of their religion or of their direction sexual .
be should the with to the great day .
in clumsily the be on these actions , be allows to the people of the there delivering .
we not must not be satisfied of we .
the type of refusing hysterical by the agresseur of Robert Peterson is deep and empreint of haine and of fanatisme .
Mr. . Peterson plans now of leave the University of the New - Brunswick and the region of Fredericton .
what shame that a young man Summer and boldest having the need of leave his new community and his new university to because of the ignorance , of the intolerance and of the fanatisme !
I the applaud for the courage which he has fact evidence in the what to of speak of the injuries diplomacy and physical who him have was Finland .
I not can that hope that , in as that leaders , we donnerons the example to all the country and that we will evidence of leadership moral in mild these crimes as by the haine .
the relations States - U.S.
the problems to the positions boundaries
the hon. Jerahmiel S . Grafstein :
honourable senators , more later today today , I déposerai the report of the delegation Canadian to the Conference of the Alliance commercial transfrontalière States - American who has had place to Washington , D . C . , of the 12 to the 14 September 99 . Mr. Joe Comuzzi , of the other place and I - even , in as that chairmen of the section Canadian of the Group Parliamentary Canada - States - United , have was invited to speak during of this meeting historic of stakeholders commercial important of the two sides of the border .
the honourable senators not are not without know that the trade bilateral between our two country represents now more of 1.3 billion of $ by day and not has of grossir .
the trade bilateral has quadruplé to the over of the last decade .
unfortunately , be fact opposite to of the embouteillages , to of the problems of saturation and of congestion to the states frontaliers .
of the expectations long and density are offered .
I believe that he there has three levels of government , and that of the authorities private and to the least 17 agencies government of the two sides of the border who cover of a way or of a other our positions boundaries .
we not can that note a lack of leadership for this who is of rénover this roadblocks eliminates to the efficiency commercial who obstrue our couloirs frontaliers all the days .
with the arrived of the concept of the " fair to time " in the practices of Destruction and the of that the any of the products " fair to time " at a expansion incredible to because of Internet , this cancer that is the saturation not will that the modern all the days and the expand .
the result , this is that the productivity and the competitiveness of the Canada continue of in barriers .
until to now , he not there has had no plan of together for be to this situation obvious , to this deteriorating of the conditions .
rather that the it do evidence of leadership policy , we let the various frustrating avoid the problem , be inefficient and worse , the delivering to of the war of jurisdiction .
Joe Comuzzi and I - even we are hemispheric to the members of the Congress American , there including the Senator Moynihan of the state of New York , the Senator Abraham of the Spencer and our old friend and colleague the Senator Frank Murkowski of the Alaska , Chairman of the Group Parliamentary Canada - States - United , in as that conférenciers extérieurs .
we have all sent with s , each to his way , the even message .
our colleagues American have was IT to the problem .
the Congress just of approve of the investment massive in the infrastructure safety including .
by against , the authorities Canadian not have not " the even priority to these investment .
the leaders , the ministers and the " must the meet for develop a plan common for solve this problem eliminates .
honourable senators , this not is that when we joindrons the with to the speak that we deviendrons a nation trading also well to the soil that in the airs .
be can hope that the new millennium réveillera our governments responsible and the incitera to assume their responsibilities in the interest of all the Canadians .
the Ontario
the bill of bill of restructuring regional - Position proposal to to to the city of Ottawa unilingual English
the hon. Marie - P .
honourable senators , I like to on of my great frustration to the new rapportée today today in the daily Ottawa Citizen and on the first page of the fervent .
I is rather surprising and particularly very shocking that the be not unless not officially the duality linguistic of the capital of this country bilingual in the bill of bill of the restructuring regional now to the study to Queen s Park .
what such of message does be by that to the Canadians of across to the country , when the capital coloured creating who live the Parliament of the country continues of adhérer to the vestiges of the unilinguisme ?
the government provincial is - he to the time if pressé of impose a restructuring mass of the region and all to fact indifférent to the regard of the francophones Canadian ?
the Senator De De :
what shame !
the Senator Poulin :
he not would certainly not very involved for the government of the Ontario of to the region of Ottawa region bilingual , in the aftermath of the other recommendations domain in the magnificent report tabled Mr. Glen Shortliffe .
honourable senators , this is well more that a question regional , this is well more that a question provincial .
this is a question of pride national .
the Canada plays a role is on the scene international .
Ottawa her regularly the leaders of state of the world around .
Ottawa is the seat of the " , of their teams who are , between other , the links diplomatic and commercial of their country respectif with the Canada .
Ottawa is the seat of the Parliament of the Canada , of the service public federal , where all the parliamentarians and all the officials can choose of work in English or in French .
honourable senators , I you ask of well would you join to I for urge the government of the Ontario to well reflect to the consequences of his actions and to restore in the bill of bill of restructuring who is to the study the concept of a capital bilingual of the Canada , the new city of Ottawa .
of the Senators :
hear !
the hon. Marcel homme man :
honourable senators , I like me join to the good words of the hon. Senator Pierre De De , since I have very often rencontréM. the Minister Bouez and the ambassador of the Lebanon .
today today , to the time where of the members of a country multiconstitutionnel we who for look a will on a country who the said bilingual and multicultural , he is pity that we recevions the new to which has fact as the Senator Poulin .
I not abuserai not of this privilege today today .
I will more later on this question .
you know all my opinion on this country and you know all this that I think of the city of Ottawa .
Ottawa is the capital of all the Canadians .
he would perspective that Ottawa be the capital national and that the be there about that a only of the two languages official , and that the Canadians French and other francophones not can say that Ottawa is also their capital .
I not in say not more for the time because the debate will long , but I will on the about .
the honourable senators want surely the join to the Senator Poulin and to the other senators for say that he must to someone something for that Ottawa reflects the real nature of the Canada .
we say well of the things in the world , and we should we to to the dawn here to Ottawa , to the Canada .
visitor of in
the Hon. the Speaker :
Mr. . Bouez is with of His Excellency the ambassador of the Lebanon to the Canada .
Affairs routine
bill of bill of 99 for the implementation in Bill of conventions tax
report of the Committee of the Banking and of the trade
the hon. é Payette - Hervieux , member of the Committee Senate Standing of the Banking and of the trade , its the report following :
the Tuesday 7 December 99
the Committee Senate Standing of the Banking and of the trade has the honour of to the
second REPORT
your Committee , which has was obedience the bill of bill S - 3 , Act an in implement a agreed , of the conventions and of the protocoles conclude between the Canada and the Kirghizistan , the Lebanon , the Algeria , the Bulgaria , the Portugal , the Ouzbékistan , the Syria , the Japan and the Luxembourg , in view of avoid the duplicates Socialist and of prevent the evasion tax in s of taxes on the income , has , pursuant to the order of referred of the Wednesday 24 November 99 , examined obedience bill of bill and in fact now report without amendment .
respectfully submitted ,
member of the Committee ,
CÉLINE HERVIEUX - PAYETTE
referred of the bill of bill to the Committee of the Affairs foreign
the Hon. the Speaker :
pursuant to a order Special proposed with the leave of the Senate and adopted the 24 November , and notwithstanding the paragraph 97 ( 4 ) of the Rules , the bill of bill is now referred to the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign .
bill of bill on the protection of the information personal and the documents electronic
the report of the Committee
the hon. Michael Kirby , chairman of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology , its the report following :
the Tuesday 7 December 99
the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology has the honour of to the
fourth REPORT
your Committee , which has was obedience the an of bill C - 6 , Act to to facilitate and to promote the trade Electronic in perpetuate the information personal collected , used or releases in some circumstances , in for the use of means electronic for bring or like of the information and of the transactions and in amend the Act on the evidence to the Canada , the Act on the were regulatory and the Act on the review of the laws , pursuant to the order of referred of the lundi6 December , has examined obedience bill of bill and in fact now report with the changes following :
1 .
page 3 , section 2 : add after the line 15 , this who following :
«« Intelligence staff on the health " would this who with a individual alive or who :
has ) all Intelligence to with to his health physical or accessibility ;
b ) all Intelligence relatif to the services of health provided to , - this ;
c ) all Intelligence relatif to the made of parties of the body or of marine Denmark facts by him , or all Intelligence from of the results of tests or of reviews through on a part of the body or a substance corporelle of , - this ;
d ) all Intelligence coast in the framework of the Benefit of services of health to , - this ;
e ) all Intelligence coast fortuitement during of the Benefit of services of health to , - this . " .
has ) Ajouter after the line 4 this who following :
" ( 1.1 )
the its part not the applies not to a organization to the regard of the information personal on the health that it recueille , using or report . " ;
b ) Ajouter after the line 7 this who following :
" ( 2.1 )
the paragraph ( 1.1 )
has of have effect a year after the into in effect of the this section . " .
respectfully submitted ,
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when consideration - we this report ?
the Senator Kirby :
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the ( 58 ( 1 ) g ) of the Rules , I move that the study of the report be placed to the order of the day of the its Senate .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the leave is - it granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Hon. the Speaker :
pleasure - he to the honourable senators of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed and the third Reading of the bill of bill is placed to the order of the day of the its Senate . )
the adjournment
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the ( 58 ( 1 ) g ) of the Rules , I move :
that , when the Senate adjourns today today , he remains adjourned until to tomorrow , the Wednesday 8 December 99 , 1:30 p.m. 30 ;
that , to 15 p.m. 30 tomorrow , if the Senate not has not debated his business , the Speaker interrompe the deliberations for adjourn the Senate ; and
that all the points formula to the Order of the day and to the Paper of the notice , who not have not was broader , have in their order present .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the leave is - it granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
the group Parliamentary Canada - States - United
the conference of the Alliance commercial transfrontalière States - American - Report of the report of the delegation Canadian
the hon. Jerahmiel S . Grafstein :
honourable senators , I have the honour of to , in the two languages official , the report of the delegation Canadian to the conference of fall of the Alliance commercial transfrontalière States - American , who has had place to Washington , D . C . , of the 12 to the 14 September 99 .
his along as senior official Honorary of the Senate to the opportunity of his retirement
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate , I am happy of propose , seconded by the Leader of the Opposition , the hon. Senator Lynch - Lynch :
that the Senate to express his subject appreciation of the distinguished statements of service Mr. Richard G . splendidly , under - Clerk and Clerk Main of the services schemes of the Senate ; and
that in recognition of the dignity , of the dedication and of the scholarly which he has fact evidence in the year of his duties , he be appropriately as senior official Honorary of this House with his entrepreneurship to the Senate and a seat to the Board to the opportunity of ceremonies .
of the Senators :
hear !
the Hon. the Speaker :
is - this of agreed , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Hon. the Speaker :
pleasure - he to the honourable senators of adopt the motion ?
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I am happy of power take few minutes for express my support to the motion .
this is a opportunity to the time joyeuse and sad .
this is a sad opportunity because that Richard splendidly - in saying the behalf , I think Senator splendidly - we leaving to the end of the year .
in fact , I think to him for this that he is exactly , this is - to - say a Clerk extraordinary of the Senate .
the opportunity is joyeuse because that Richard splendidly is if young .
he is more young that I and , for I , this is very young .
but Richard is here since a time performance , 44 years .
I am went in the hallway see the Taking of the leaders of the government to the Senate - unfortunately , they not taking not of Taking of the leaders of the Opposition - and the Leader of the government to the time where Richard was come work to the Senate was a sure William Ross Macdonald , of the Ontario .
Richard , you have seen from eight first ministers since you are was in service under LouisSt. Lawrence .
honourable senators , Richard splendidly is a be all to fact to on to the Senate and , I in am sure , his statements of service the démarquent in the together of the service public .
he has fact a contribution exceptional , débutant as page for access to the as of Clerk Deputy .
Richard , you we have us with a distinction and a scholarly tremendous , and we you in remercions .
I am happy of support the motion proposed , and I hope you so to well of the ceremonies official .
blessed - you have a long and pleased retirement .
the hon. John Lynch - Lynch ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I am very happy of take the speak for support with enthusiasm the motion of the Senator Boudreau , even if I not was forced that by the with or even the fear .
in effect , he is needless of remind that Richard splendidly , more that all other member of the staff , with all and will all , and that , until to now he has said very little of things , if as is that he has open the mouth .
that believe of as more important when be at conscience that , since the arrived here , in 1956 , he has seen défiler 277 of the 827 senators who have was appointed since the Confederation .
the third of between them have was submitted to the review .
he has was to the service of 14 attests and he has fully nine Gouverneurs worry .
what stories Richard splendidly could recount to the about of these 40 years and more that he has fellow here , and how he is rassurant of know that he not can nothing say as that he will to the service of the Senate , even to a as Doctorate !
honourable senators , I believe that this reason enough for support the motion without the less hesitation , and even with a captured indécent , little any the number of permissions necessary .
I wish to out more particularly the are of Richard , even if the affiliation policy we believe suspecte .
this is that he Visas his advice eliminated on the procedure of way absolutely equal and without party took .
the fact is , honourable senators , except for the humour lack , that the Senate not will not the even when we revert the year next because that Richard emportera with him a small morceau of the Senate .
he has well too fact part of the day for that he in be other .
I hope only that he emportera also with him our respect , our gratitude and our affection , because , in the spirit of the decision made yesterday by the Speaker , human not has better served the Senate that him .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators ...
the Hon. the Speaker :
I must inform the Senate that if the Senator Boudreau at now the speak , the speech will for effect of closing the debate on the motion .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I am all to fact of agreed with the Leader Deputy , the distinguished Leader of the Opposition and all those who have offered their wish to Richard in private .
I the for , and him wish a very pleased , successful and prosperous retirement which contained any his family .
he we tarde also of you see in this chamber in as that guest Honorary very Special .
that the said , I move that the motion be agreed .
of the Senators :
hear !
the Hon. the Speaker :
the Senator Boudreau , seconded by the Senator Lynch - Lynch , move :
that the Senate wish express his subject appreciation of the distinguished statements of service Mr. Richard G . splendidly , under - Clerk and Clerk Main of the services schemes of the Senate ; and
that in recognition of the dignity , of the dedication and of the scholarly which he has fact evidence in the year of his duties , he be appropriately as senior official Honorary of this House with his entrepreneurship to the Senate and a seat to the Board to the opportunity of ceremonies .
you pleasure - he , honourable senators , of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
the Program of Exchange of pages with the House of the Commons
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I like you to the page of the House of the Commons that we have with we this week in the framework of the Program of Exchange of pages with the House of the Commons .
Mr. . Julien Morrissette , who is placed of Ottawa , is to the Faculty of the Science political of the University of Ottawa .
PERIOD PERIOD question
the transport
the possible of a taken of control of the Airlines air Canadian International by Air Canada - - service to the Airports regional
the hon. Ethel Cochrane :
honourable senators , my question the is to the Leader of the government .
that the Globe and Mail of yesterday , the Minister of the Transport has said this who following :
, our notice , we must create a community oriented the competition domestic for the new transporteur ...
we not want absolutely not to to the former regime of regulatory ...
this is that the reaction of the Minister to the taken of control imminente of the Airlines air Canadian International by Air Canada .
the question not is not here of know what society air choose , but is rather to determine if a society air desservira still the airport local .
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I thank the hon. Senator of his question .
this is clearly a about of concern , particularly in some regions of the Canada Atlantic .
Stephenville is without doubt a good example of the problem which fact opposite the sector of the transportation Air to the hour current , because this airport has already was source of problems in the past .
before the recent events who have dismantling the sector of the transportation Air , he there had had of the problems on the full of service of transportation Air to from of this airport .
the Minister is well to the aware of the situation and the comments vigorous made by of the senators and of the members from in particular of the Canada Atlantic and of other grandchildren centres will none doubt to to in so that he remains well to the fact of this question .
the Senator Cochrane :
honourable senators I lives to about 120 kilometres of Deer Lake .
however , of other communities are now private of service and the people must although about 150 kilometres .
I think to the people of communities as Port to the Basques and CapeSt. George , in the part continentale , and of the peninsula of Port to the Port , who must preferred of the disappear many more major .
the government not the makes - he not that that a policy oriented the competition not will not to décoller of the had of Stephenville , Charlo or Chatham , to the New - Brunswick , or of the other Airports who have was already was abandoned by InterCanadien ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , the statement of the Minister , I there , not the wanted not a solution global .
I have mentioned to several occasions in this chamber the great principles of the policy of the government , and the a of between them with the Liaison air with the small communities of our country .
the Minister has mentioned and time , to the House of the Commons and , , that the need of coastal the small communities was to the heart of the policy government .
the Council of the Board
the preparedness in view of the year 2000 - Position possible of a hearing in Committee Whole
the hon. J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , my question the is to the Leader of the government , but all as to the Leader Deputy of the government .
it result of a question that me has raised he there has few fairest our whip .
the Senator DeWare me has asked where I would little after the day of the New .
I have answered that I would in I but that I have a new number and I the him have of .
I have said : " Pourquoi want - you know where I be ? "
it has answered : " Ah , to the case where he there would someone something who not Walker not rond to midnight of this day fatidique . "
I have of more in more the Appendix that the government not knows not to the fair where in is the Canada in this who with the problems potential from to the Bug of the year 2000 .
to of we anyone , the Leader of the government to the Senate could - he ask to the ministers competent , as the Minister of the Defence , of appear briefly before the Senate met in Committee Whole in company of a or of two of his expert , before that the Senate not adjourned for the period of ë ?
that would to the senators of for of the questions on any a series of problems possible .
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , her the Minister Robillard , chairman of the Council of the Board , is the Minister responsible for the Deputy in view of the Bug of the year 2000 .
be me has assured that of the measures have was taken in all the sectors essential and that the government of the Canada not the is not to this that he there has of the problems during of the a to the new millennium .
he is always good of to evidence of prudence in this such of situation .
he can be important of know where the people - key , as the hon. Senator , can be contactées to all time .
this to of the for of planning , only to as of prudence .
I not believe not that that should an the anguishes .
the Senator Forrestall :
honourable senators , the whip of the government has he or not felt necessary of be to obtain of the information to this about ?
in the affirmative , can - he add faith to this one ?
my question supplementary the is to the Leader Deputy of the government to the Senate .
has he the intention of ask to the Minister appropriate and to a member of the staff of we spend a 20 of minutes or a half - hour for we anyone on this point ?
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I know by experience that he is confirmed of my on of answer to a question to least that the Leader not be absent .
however , without answer to the question , I rise note of the words of the hon. Senator and I date of there give on .
the heritage
the League national of hockey - Position possible of a new loterie for help the teams Canadian - - announcement of the Minister
the hon. David Tkachuk :
honourable senators , of the Bug of the year 2000 , I on to Sheila Copps , who represents it - even a Bug of the year 2000 .
we can always hope that it directly in missed after the 31 December .
honourable senators , be could read recently in the Globe and Mail that Sheila Copps had announced a new plan .
as it not has not announced this that it that to to the other place , the Leader of the government to the Senate could - he explain the new plan ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I must say to the hon. Senator that I not have not was this to a meeting where a such plan would was announced .
I am therefore of not not power the help to this about .
the Senator Tkachuk :
is a response an , honourable senators .
he seems that this was that also the response an that has made the Minister responsible of this matter , Mr. Manley , who not had him not more no idea of the substance of this announcement .
, who , to the cabinet , responsibility he of find a solution to the problem ?
is - this to Sheila Copps , Minister of the Heritage Canadian , or to John Manley , Minister of the Industry ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , all the members of the board executive shared certainly some concerns and a some responsibility to this regard .
the Minister Manley is however , who in is the Main responsible .
the Senator Tkachuk :
honourable senators , I am intrigué by the way which the government the ' of the problems national since someone time .
however , the Minister Manley not in has not the less idea .
the Minister responsible not knows nothing of this plan .
that not me give not great confidence that someone a will by find a solution to this that the teams Canadian of the lack have described as a great problem to with for that they can stay in activity here .
if all the ministers and all the government are law of find a solution to this plan , he would can - be useful that the Minister we ask the approach .
how can - be find a solution to a problem as , - that ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I am course that this question concern all the members of the Council private .
the education that he would can - be from of this incident , this is that he not must not always believe all this that be reads in the Globe and Mail .
the Affairs Intergovernmental
the Quebec - - conditions future of a referendum - Position date of the announcement by the Prime Minister
the hon. Lowell Murray :
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , the results of any discussion who would had place , the case if , would people public by the Prime Minister in time useful .
the Senator the knows surely .
the Senator Murray :
honourable senators , I understand naturally that the Leader of the government am to damer the pion to the Prime Minister to the about of the announcement .
however , can - he we say when we can hope that the Prime Minister will a announcement to this regard ?
the Senator Boudreau :
I am sorry , but I am to to of the conjectures on the date where the Prime Minister want to a announcement on a question also important to his be .
as I risk of misleading involontairement the senators in mistake , I please the Senator of not not me ask of give a response direct and I say rather , for use a expression day , " in time and place " .
hope that the Prime Minister will the announcement in a future enough grown .
the Senator Murray :
honourable senators , I understand that .
I not is not to fairer the things .
I with the question all simply because that he is possible , even likely , that the Parliament , who includes course the Senate , will ' to contribution .
I trying of determine if we should we to loans , if to to a question , to the least to take note of a initiative introduced to the Parliament before the break of ë .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , if the Prime Minister will proceed by the seaway legislative , the Senate will inevitably a role important to play .
, know if that can underscoring with our Celebration of ë , I would were to believe that we mark all ë with our families .
the work
the situation criticism of the without - from - - of of Progress of the strategy government
the hon. M. Robertson :
honourable senators , my question the is to the Leader of the government to the Senate and relates on the strategy of the government to to unconventional the situation of the without - from .
in fact , my question fact on to a response provided by the hon. Leader of the government to a question raised by the Senator Cohen , the 23 November last .
, the end of the Winter last , the government has responsible the Minister of the Labour of coordinating the solution that the government has proposed to the problem of the without - from .
, this time , the situation looking high .
be had expressed of many concern , because well of the people had suffered to the over of the Winter .
her the Minister had then said that it élaborerait the strategy of the government in least of a months .
honourable senators , this who me concern , the of the time has , this is the possible that this strategy the enlise someone on to the government .
this is of , this that it hear a section which yesterday in the Toronto Star , that the Leader has surely read .
be quote a source government who would said this who following :
we not have could delivering the marchandise .
human not the in pleased .
the Minister has worked very and we can say that we have fact of the things , but we not have not could to speak .
I not like not me proud only to this section .
the Leader of the government could can - be to of the Particulars regarding the response that he has given to the Senator Cohen he there has a 15 , inform the Senate of the of of Progress of the strategy regarding the without - from and explain on what he the suggested in saying that of the measures would announcements under little .
used here , the expression " under little " is always eager élastique .
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , the Minister responsible has fact a work remarkable in the by in all the regions of the country for consult the people and meet the groups directly in because .
it has covered well of the ground and has presented very liberalized of the were of principle and of the programs in favour of the without - from .
I then ensure to the hon. Senator that this process not the is not enlisé .
the Minister the case with as and vigour to the implementation in implement of his recommendations .
in this who with the date exactly of the announcements , to new I must say that he will to the Minister of in decide .
however , I sharing the hope of the Senator and I that well that the announcement not tardera not too .
the Senator Robertson :
honourable senators , I thank the Leader of the government of this response .
this who me bothers , this is that the government has should prematurely that a strategy would in effect since great lurette .
that has created of the expectations who have terni a little the good intentions of the government and who have décontenancé all those who want the deal to this serious problem .
that the even section of the Toronto Star , the Minister of the Finance would said that , for give of good results , the strategy must be accepted by the three levels of governments .
well of the honourable senators , which the Leader of the government and I - even , have already in to the negotiating of agreements federal - provincial .
we know to what point of such negotiations can be difficult and long , then who knows to what time we obtiendrons a strategy on the without - from ?
seen that he must now that the provinces and the municipalities the while , the process could take two or three years .
between - time , well of the people suffering .
the Leader of the government to the Senate could - he we say if the negotiations with the provinces have project and what is the Frame ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , the other levels of government have far responsibility of we help to met this challenge of size who the with across to the country .
he is clear that they have a role to play .
all program présentépar the government federal not replace not the responsibilities who , morally and constitutionnellement , are to the governments provincial and , by procuration , to the authorities municipal .
I bring the questions of the hon. Senator to her the Minister and I will of my better for to with the more of information possible .
the Senator Robertson :
honourable senators , this who concern of many Canadians , between other things , this is that to the time where the announcement has was made the Winter last , he not has not was question of the participation of the provinces or of the municipalities .
he seems that the government federal not has not played the role of Leader of leadership , as he the had promised .
this is disturbing , and I like obtain of the answers clear and fearlessly , to of power answer of manner preventing to the people who ministerial continually with my office .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I understand , say , the forward that the Senator country to the regard of this question .
I then only him give the insurance that her the Minister the interest of very close to the matter and that it continues of the to current .
, the risk of me repeat , I will delivering any the information that he me is possible of bring to the hon. Senator to of was some of his concern .
the Affairs foreign
the report of the Council Canadian for the cooperation international - Position recommendation préconisant the institution of a group of work - Position Position of the government
the hon. Douglas Roche :
honourable senators , my question the is to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
today today , the Council Canadian for the cooperation international has record public a report entitled : " Bilan of the assistance " ; this report out that the contribution of the Canada to the assistance public to the development has reached the more there level en30 years and that our country is now eleventh among les21 country takes of the OECD , then that he the rated to the seventeenth rank in 1996 .
this is a peerage to for the better country where live in the world .
that given of the fact that the government has announced the intention of the Canada of increase the budget of assistance , the question of the quality of the assistance is always of implementation .
by therefore , the board has recommended the creation of a group of work on the renewal of the assistance Canadian , group who entreprendrait a review systematic of the priorities of programs of the CIDA .
the Leader of the government to the Senate would - he the please of would this recommendation to the government and of to then report to the Senate to of him say if situation group of work will created and , in the case contrary , for what reason ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I know of what report about the hon. Senator .
, least that I me wrong , he has was record public today today , of so that I am sure that the Minister in question not has not still had the opportunity of the excellent in detail .
in the speech of the Throne , the government the commitment clear to increase the assistance to the development international .
he the commitment also to to in so that it be about that of new guideline innovative who will of help of way more effective the country poor to obtain of the results in s of development economic .
I hope that the be will on to the feelings views in the speech of the Throne in the framework of the process budget .
for answer more specifically to the hon. Senator , I will on of this question to the Minister interested .
we should to to the Minister the time of take knowledge of the report , but I me commitment to obtain a response to the question of the hon. Senator .
the plan to to establish a policy consistent of assistance foreign
the hon. LoisM. Wilson :
honourable senators , I have in today today to the table NRTEE hosted by the CCCI and to which were attendance of the officials of the CIDA .
where is the gallery - of solve these contradictions to that our policy of assistance its more of consistency ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , the speech of the Throne editing clear that the be reverrait our policy of assistance foreign .
this review the déroulera to the as and to legislation that we progresserons in the graduate budget and that we aborderons some of the important problems who have was raised to this regard .
the decisions regarding the assistance foreign must clearly concorder with the objectives to to reduce the poverty , to improve the health and the education and , of fact , to s a healthy management public in all the country of the world .
that remains a objective important of the Department of the Affairs foreign and of the Trade international .
the Senator Wilson :
honourable senators , all that is very rassurant , but the response received this after - afternoon as that he not there not of plan .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I me in like of be also authoritative .
the plans of action mentioned in the speech of the Throne will élaborés for the weeks and the months to come .
, the as and to legislation that we progresserons in the graduate budget , I think well that her the Senator observera of the elements who the rassureront .
the is of the budget of the assistance foreign
the hon. A . Raynell Andreychuk :
honourable senators , the Prime Minister has indicated that the budget of the assistance will increased .
this budget not has never was also reduced in 30 years .
he includes now also a assistance humanitarian increased and the actions of - of the peace , as those in over to the Kosovo .
the government the is - he committed to increase the appropriation of the assistance so to the programs traditional of education and of hygiène of basic , in place and place of the other programs who the inscriraient , to fair as of , , in of other Each ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , the role of the Canada on the scene international has took a importance of the more disadvantage through to our forces Armed .
we have without doubt more of military in service addition - sea today today that since the War of Korea .
our role in s of - of the peace has took enormous of magnitude .
I not have not had the time of read the report entitled : " Bilan of the assistance 2000 " , and I not know therefore not under what rubriques are Answers of such Estimates .
I have the Appendix that they not will not was groupées , to of the for budget , with the Estimates of assistance which has spoke the Prime Minister , or with the initiatives contained in the speech of the Throne .
the Senator Andreychuk :
I could can - be enlighten the Minister .
the costs associated to the initiatives of - of the peace , the interventions military , the consolidation of the peace and the actions humanitarian , have was in good part then on the budget of the assistance .
the Estimates Answers under this Order have increased , then that those for for of other programs of assistance have decreased .
I cannot and to the Minister of consider of increase the assistance granted to the resolution of problems basic to the origin of the agitation in the country in development .
the assujettissement of the assistance foreign to the respect of the rights of the human - Position Position of the government
the hon. A . Raynell Andreychuk :
the is - he of a change of Position of the government Liberal ?
the Party Liberal has , by the past , against the assujettissement of the assistance to the rights of the human .
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , not to not knowledge of the speech which about the Senator Andreychuk , I soulèverai the question with of the Minister responsible and apporterai a response to the hon. Senator as that possible .
the business of the Senate
use to the Rules
the hon. ë A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , if I in had had the time during the period of the questions , I would asked a question to the chairman of the Committee Senate Standing of the Banking and of the trade .
the Senator in question not is not this , but I see the vice - chairman and several members of the Committee of the Banking .
today today , the Senator Payette - Hervieux has presented a report of the Committee of the Banking who has was read and tabled .
I am went the to and he not had not was certifié as report of the Committee by the chairman of the Committee Senate Standing of the Banking and of the trade .
the table to the office me have informed that they the had also noticed and had referred the report to the Senator Payette - Hervieux to that it the sign .
the vice - chairman of the Committee Senate Standing of the Banking and of the trade can - he we describe the nature of the meeting during of which he has was decided - if however that has was decided - that the Committee of the Banking étudierait the bill of bill S - 3 section by section ?
there he a that record of this meeting ?
a motion has it was introduced and there he a that record of this motion , Requesting to the chairman or to the vice - chairman of to this report to the Senate ?
the hon. David Tkachuk :
honourable senators , the response is yes .
the Senator Kinsella :
the vice - chairman can - he explain why a other Senator that the chairman or the vice - chairman , as the want the used and the use , has was appropriately for to the report to the Senate ?
the Senator Tkachuk :
honourable senators , I not am not the Senator Kolber .
I not know not to what he has thought .
yesterday , my office has received a message me Requesting of to the report on the bill of bill , but I was party of Saskatoon for Ottawa and , as you the know , the trip at any a day .
by therefore , I not have not answered to this ask .
the first time that I have heard say that the report would presented today today , this is when the hon. Senator Payette - Hervieux the has mentioned .
the Senator Kinsella :
honourable senators , to the page 14 of a publication of the Branch of the committees of the Senate dated of November 99 and s Introduction to the committees Senate , be ask how the reports must be sent to the Senate by a Committee .
be there said that , when the chairman of a Committee its a report , the Committee unless that he has debated the business that the Senate him had provinces in the mandate .
in the case of a bill of bill , that includes the study section by section of the bill of bill .
the use to that the be ask to the sin of the Committee when the report on the bill of bill will presented .
a member of the Committee its then a motion to this about .
in be the motion , the Committee give to the chairman the leave of to the report .
that this publication , the report is presented by the chairman or by a other member appropriately of the Committee .
in the absence of the chairman and of the vice - chairman , I like determine the process who has was followed for that a other member of the Committee be and appropriately .
he must ensure the control of the process for know if yes or not the report of a Committee is in fact the report on which the majority of the members of the Committee the are heard .
this is a of the problems that I have with the report who has was tabled in this chamber more earlier to the over of the deliberations .
the other problem that I have is that I not know not to the fair - because that I not have not still the that record - this that His Hon. has said to the time of the Presented of this report .
I believe that I have heard that the leave had was granted , but I know if that was referring to the deliberations who have had place here today today or to the decision who has was taken he there has someone time when the bill of bill has was referred to the Committee of the Banking .
be the asked to the time the he was referred to a Committee or two committees .
we must obtain of the clarification on these two questions .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I like answer to this point to the regulation .
I have listened the Senator Kinsella .
I know to the fair the he the concern of three questions or of a question .
he has all of first raised the question of the signing necessary on the bill of bill , and I believe understand that he the is view after have examined the bill of bill that he not was no signing .
if I not me read , this situation has was corrigée since that be has discovered this mistake .
the second question is to know if the bill of bill has was well examined by the Committee .
I believe understand , to the light of the intervention of the Senator Tkachuk that , to the notice , a motion to the referred of the bill of bill has was agreed .
the third question is of know if be has well appropriately a member of the Committee responsible of table the bill of bill , be the chairman , who not is not here and not could in to report , the vice - chairman or a other member of the Committee , in fact , the sponsor of the bill of bill , the Senator Payette - Hervieux .
I not know not if that will to the with of the fractious or of the procedures normal , but I pretend that not . A member of the Committee can table a report to the place of the chairman , when the vice - chairman is this , even if be the is normally to this that the vice - chairman whether in the absence of the chairman .
in this who with the words of the chairman to the on of the Tabled of the report , I will the repeat .
be me in has sent a copy .
the Senator Lynch - Lynch :
you are well the only .
the Senator Hays :
be there bedtime :
pursuant to the order Special proposed with the leave of the Senate and adopted the 24 November and notwithstanding the paragraph 97 ( 4 ) of the Rules , the bill of bill is now referred to the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign .
I the have received in concerning to the Senate .
I believe understand that that was to to in so that this legislation legislative be consideration of way orderly , that the désirs of the Senate .
I trying of see to this that the bill of bill be examined to the time by the Committee of the Banking and by , of the Affairs foreign in reason of the questions who have was raised by the senators relatively to the details of the bill of bill .
I not me pause however not on this question .
the hon. John Lynch - Lynch ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , the question is of know if the be can to to a member of the Committee of table a report without the Authorized of the Committee , if this is well the case , then that this report is approved by the Committee .
the Committee has decided of to report of the bill of bill .
that I far , human not has seen the bill of report , can - be even not the chairman or the vice - chairman .
by included of the fractious and by respect for their as , he would was to the least that they see the report or in is the disclosure .
except mistake , this not was not the case , and her the Senator Payette - Hervieux not has not was officially Cabinet to table the report .
I ask confirmation of these facts .
the Senator Tkachuk :
not , that not the is not fact .
the Senator Lynch - Lynch :
second , I not to not that we we enlisions in the procedure and I hope that we not considerations not here a precedent in term the bill of bill to more of a Committee , but I not see not how the Speaker can be authorized to refer of a Committee to a other , to the step of the Affairs offered , a report who not has even not was debated here .
I not see not the link that the Speaker can to .
that be me takes if I me wrong , but I supposais , after the two days of debate spent to this question , that the report would tabled here and that the Senate déciderait of the fate .
he the is of a report for to the Senate and not to the Speaker .
I know this that be will by " order Special " .
be note , in transcript the debate , that he is said simply , as the Senator Hays the has explained the second day in rectifiant of the about who not had not was properly transcrits in the that record official , that the question was be referred to a place , then to the other .
the proposition was that , for go of a place to the other , he him was be reconfirmé here .
the Speaker has acted in our behalf , without explanation or warning .
I have always believed that , to the across of the that , this was the Senate who décidait how he was deal the bills of bill and the reports and where they were go .
in this case - this , however , even if we want that the report strictly to the Committee of the Affairs foreign , that the is fact without that the Senate has the word to say .
the Senate not has never had the opportunity of to the report or of see this that he there had no .
the Senator Hays :
I like to a other observation to the about of the use to the Rules , and more particularly of the concern stated by the Senator Lynch - Lynch , to know if the bill of bill was to here before of be referred to the Committee of the Affairs foreign or go to the Committee of the Affairs foreign after that the Committee of the Banking in its last with him .
I not have not the or exactly before I , but I believe that the Speaker had been that as be say that he would of first to the Committee of the Banking then that , a time that the Committee of the Banking in would last with him , he would to the Committee of the Affairs foreign .
we not have nothing said of more , and he is reasonable of interpret that as be say that he would directly to the Committee of the Affairs foreign a time that the Committee of the Banking in would last with him .
he is also possible of interpret that to the way of the Senator Lynch - Lynch .
of any manner , I believe know that the Committee of the Affairs foreign not has not began his deliberations .
the Senator Lynch - Lynch to - he add someone something as to the desire that the question be now heard to the Senate rather that to the Committee of the Affairs foreign ?
the Senator Tkachuk :
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I i that we us of a use to the Rules , and all the world can take the speak regarding a use to the Rules .
the Senator Tkachuk :
I not have not had the opportunity of ask to the Senator Jeffrey , who as I is member of the Committee steering of the Committee of the Banking , the he knew that the Senator Payette - Hervieux had tabled the report to the House today today .
the Hon. the Speaker :
I am sorry , but the question to the Senator Jeffrey not is not valid for the hour .
however , the he to there answer and if the Senate to well the hear , he not in with that to him .
the Senator Tkachuk :
he would can - be useful that I ask the reason of my approach .
the Senator Kinsella has raised a point interesting .
I not am here that since six years , but I have was chairman of the Committee of the Finance for a sure time , while that the Senator Kirby was chairman of the Committee of the Banking .
if I not could not table a report , I told , in as that chairman , to the Senator De De of the to to my place .
when we not could or the a or the other be here , we have a other arrangement .
this is the even something with the Senator Kirby .
or well he Economy the report , or well he me asked of the to to his place .
if we not had could the to or the a or the other , we we would heard on the human to designate for this to - if need was .
the Senator Kirby and I - even not had not of Committee steering .
we resolve to we two the Committee steering , and we we in tirions very well .
I me ask if the Senator Jeffrey the knew .
is who we would of understand how he the fact that that the be product without that I in far nothing or not there appose my signing .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I not was not to the Chair , but I believe know that we are now before of two points to the regulation .
the Senator Lynch - Lynch :
they the ramènent to a only .
your Hon. has decided during of the Affairs offered - time where the be not can or point the Rules or raise a part of discussion without in have from the leave - of send to a other Committee a report of Committee who had all fair of be tabled .
the Rules for that to the least a day must the allowed between the Tabled of a report and the third Reading .
in this case - this , of any obviously , we not could not from to the third Reading , but we not have even not could see the report .
I had hoped that , if Honour Hon. was to a decision , you the have fact during of the order of the day , which case we have could then receive a explanation regarding this decision exceptional .
in from , this not is not we who have created this situation .
in second place , the Senator Payette - Hervieux not to not was officially Cabinet by the Committee to to the report , the report has he indeed was presented in good and properly form ?
the Senator Kinsella :
honourable senators , this point to the Rules there several elements .
regarding the analysis of the bill of bill by the Committee of the Banking , the review section by section and the report to the Senate , I have was until to the table for consult the report tabled .
a report the there people indeed , but he not was not the signing of the Senator who the had presented , this who has been in I a interrogation , to know what was the been to follow .
the report not has was tabled or by the chairman or by the vice - chairman .
, least that the proceedings - refer of the business of the Committee not refers that a other Senator has was responsible of the to - and I not the have not under the be - , I not know too if the report has was tabled to the Senate in good and properly form or not .
the other question , who is unusual , and all the world in agree , with to the fact that , by order of the Senate , the report must be sent to two committees rather that to a only .
the decision of the to to by the Committee of the Banking the expliquait by a series of concerns raised to the step of the second Reading and who concernaient of the questions tax , this who 1 all to fact to the skills of the Committee of the Banking .
we should study the report of the Committee of the Banking before of refer the bill of bill to the Committee of the Affairs foreign because that he is possible that he there has a link between the problems of tax that has internally the Committee of the Banking and the questions related to the Affairs foreign - including , the questions provisions to the rights of the human who have fact part of the points internally to the step of the second Reading .
all these questions should be examined .
honourable senators , he is possible that we were of way a little premature .
a report only has was tabled .
we not the have not examined .
he there , to my notice , a link substantial between the analysis of the report and the analysis of the bill of bill , who would then referred to the Committee of the Affairs foreign .
this is this who me has took to me question on the acceptability of the question .
the Senator Hays :
honourable senators , I have already said this that I thought of the acceptability of the work made by the Committee of the Banking and the question being by the Senator Lynch - Lynch .
however , I is the argument of the Senator Kinsella very interesting .
for this who is of the day - I not so not to back the with on the that record of the deliberations of this day - that - of the members of the two committees have some the desire of the with on the question , particularly in reason of the nature of the bill of bill and of a of the elements of the bill of bill who has with to the rights of the human .
we have tried of to in so that the bill of bill be referred to two committees successivement .
the Committee of the Banking the would focused on the Prime bill of bill .
the words that we have used then were in for of this .
the question is the next : that fact the Senate or how with he the product of the work of the Committee ?
my interpretation of the statements to this about and of all the things that we have made until here , on the fact that the report not has not was signed and on the question of know the he is consistent to the Rules or not that a member of the Committee other that the chairman or the vice - chairman its a report without a motion enable - and I say that that not is not a barrier - this is that we want that the bill of bill be referred to two committees and that the reports of the two committees we headed for be studied in even time .
if that is fact , the Senator Kinsella not will more place of the concern .
rétrospectivement , I say that the suggestions of the hon. Senator were can - be the manner doubt of proceed - this is - to - say that we not have can - be not should refer the bill of bill to the two committees the a after the other .
however , since we have by and , this who so is exactly this that we find to for can to the result know , to know have before we the work of the two committees to of power the to .
however , for to that , we must have the two reports before we in even time .
the Hon. the Speaker :
there has he someone other hon. Senator who wish take the speak to the about of the point to the Rules ?
if , I will take the question in advisement .
I not was not here the week last when the question has was raised for the first time and I not have not heard all the arguments .
however , I like remind to the senators that when a bill of bill is referred to a Committee , this last must to a report .
no amendment and no motion not are tabled to this time .
he not there has not of discussion .
this is the situation who prevails to the hour current .
however , I will me with on the question and I you in rendrai that as that possible .
order DAY THE
the business of the Senate
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
we spend now to the Affairs of the government and I like , to the behalf of the senators of the party first , call the Prime section for consideration , be the report of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology to on the bill of bill C - 6 .
bill of bill on the protection of the information personal and the documents electronic
Adopted of the report of the Committee
the Senate on to the study of the fourth report of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology ( bill of bill C - 6 , Act to to facilitate and to promote the trade Electronic in perpetuate the information personal collected , used or releases in some circumstances , in for the use of means electronic for bring or like of the information and of the transactions and in amend the Act on the evidence to the Canada , the Act on the were regulatory and the Act on the review of the laws ) , tabled more earlier today today .
- honourable senators , to as of sponsor of the bill of bill C - 6 and of chairman of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology who has already spent many of time to the study of the about treaty in the bill Bill C - 6 .
my comments today today conservation primarily on the bill of bill in General , but also and more particularly on the amendments to the bill of bill who are proposed in the report of the Committee tabled to the Senate more earlier this after - afternoon .
in the context of the economy World , the information is become a marchandise important and valuable .
then that before the governments were which as the major bagmen and choose of information personal , of our days , the sector private plays a role of more in more important in this field .
since the frameworks of networks as Internet , the disclosure and the distribution of the information personal is become a source of concern for the Canadians who are of see their life privacy the rétrécir to legislation that these networks the extends .
, the Canada , the government federal and the most of the governments provincial have already of the laws who deal of the raising , of the use and of the disclosure of information personal by the sector private , but only the Quebec has any a bill on the protection of the information personal who governs the sector private .
some organizations have adopted of the codifies Voluntary relatively to the raising and to the use of the information personal , but the use of these codifies not is not widespread and not is not brutes of a coast to the other .
in 1996 , the government federal the is committed to develop a bill for protect the information personal collected by the sector private .
the objective of the government was then of legislation before the beginning of the year 2000 .
the bill of bill C - 6 result of this commitment .
a bill of bill who is to protect the information personal must necessarily to that of the right of a human of know and of accept that of the information to the about will collected , used or ever to some for .
the bill of bill C - 6 is the balance between of the objectives conflictuels , to know , of a on , this right of a human of increase to provide of the information and of understand why of the information are collected and how they will used and , of other on , the need of ensure a operating doing and efficient of the economy .
honourable senators , to the exception of the only amendment proposed in the report of the Committee , I can you ensure that the study of the bill of bill C - 6 in Committee has shown that he the is of a legislation legislative remarkable .
the government has product a real Leader - of implement on the trade Electronic .
the bill of bill proving this difficult balance between the world of the Affairs and the interests of the consumers .
one , honourable senators , I not have never seen a bill of bill that the businesses that the groups of consumers are all as impatients of see adopted .
all the representatives of businesses , of consumers , of firmes technological , of companies of insurance , of Banking , and even of assessment of the credit , who have before before the Committee have calling the Adopted quick of the bill of bill .
all these stakeholders suitable that he represents a together fair and reasonable of practices of information .
in effect , of the witnesses of all the sectors of the economy Canadian , to the exception of the sector of the health , have employee of the long as " balance delicate " , " result of years and of months of negotiating " , " very good consensus " , and cetera , for describe this bill of bill and ask the Adopted with haste .
the witnesses who have adopted this point of view understood not only of the representatives of the sector of the businesses , but also , by example , of the advocates of the rights Political and of the expert in protection of the information personal .
by therefore , honourable senators , if this bill of bill is also good that I just of the say , why the Committee there has he proposed a amendment ?
this is to this question that I believe duty spend the major part of my comments .
this is because that , in despite of the support massive of the businesses and of the consumers , a sector very important the against to the unanimously to the Adopted , for the moment .
short , a sector , , of the health , is all as unanimous in the Opposition to the bill of bill .
he is clear that the together of the sector of the health not was not part of the admirable consensus which I have spoke he there has a moment .
in effect , even to the within of this sector , he not there has absolutely no consensus on this that should be the good solution , in this sense that he not the is not presented as a group homogène who réclamait a together precise of amendments .
he has calling all they of amendments .
let - I of you give few examples for illustrate the situation .
some witnesses have recommended that the information on the health be completely excluded of the bill of bill .
of other , as the relates - speak of the Association medical Canadian and of the Association dental Canadian , thought that the bill of bill not protégeait not enough the information personal on the health .
of other the bogeyman if the provisions provisions to the consent were adequate since they not parlaient not specifically of consentements informed and real .
all the members of the sector of the health who have before before the Committee had of the doubts as to the scope and to the application of the bill of bill .
the concerns that I have made schématiquement , honourable senators , come of as very various , by example of the doctors , of the dentists , of the pharmaciens , of the nurses , of the hospitals , of the Laboratories medical , the as of the research medical , the departments provincial of the Health , the responsible of the accreditation of the services of health , and cetera .
, say true , honourable senators , no of the groups of the community of the health who have appeared before the Committee or him have fact can a memory not was favourable to the Adopted of the bill of bill in his form current .
the Committee has also was contravenes by the testimony of many representatives of the sector of the health who have said not not have played a role seriously in the consultation who have preceded the Tabled of the bill of bill .
some of between them have even said to the Committee that they had release with the responsible government he not there has hardly that eight or nine months , and that they the were fact answer that he not there had not place of the concern of this bill of bill because that he was in fact on the trade Electronic and not on the sector of the health .
by therefore , honourable senators , the consensus if admirable that the Minister has succeeded to initiative in very little of time in the rest of the economy , be about 18 months , not predecessor not the sector of the health because that the bill of bill was to on the trade Electronic .
he the obviously that be not has not thought on the the to include the sector of the health among those who were play a role essential in the negotiations .
of many services of health are to the for of the state , but the people and the organizations who the fournissent excursions can as to the sector private , to the sector public or still to the sector of the they .
he there therefore of the links many more close between sector public and sector private that this not is the case in someone other field of the economy Canadian .
however , honourable senators , the sector of the care of health am many to take the bill of bill such that he is .
in fact , the Minister of the Industry has seconded implicitement this reaching when he has appeared before the Committee of the Affairs Social , Thursday last , to about of the application of the bill of bill C - 6 to the information on the health and has said that , in the three years following the into in effect of the bill of bill , the impact on the sector of the care of health would limited .
he has supported that this impact would so limited that it not sort we of delay the application of this bill of bill for clarify the impact on the sector of the care of health .
honourable senators , the members of the Committee have including the arguments of the Minister , have including the facts on which they were based , and in are yet upon to a conclusion totally different .
the Committee continues of fear that this bill of bill of trade Electronic not has of the effects high obscurs and unforeseen ; more important still , the Committee would particularly know the nature likely of these effects high .
in effect , the impact likely of the bill of bill on the sector of the care of health is far of be clear .
the he is true , as the has fact point the Minister , that the bill of bill not will of the impact that on a intake part of the sector of the care of health in the three first years following his proclamation , he is therefore possible , for a sure time , of clarify the effects that he will on the information particularly exposure and personal on the health of the people , without jeopardizing his impact on the broader sector commercial who rest .
since , with this amendment , the bill of bill not will of the impact on the sector public of the care of health that three years after the into in effect , we giving to the government and to the parties appointed the possible of develop of the rules and of the regulations who garantiront to the Canadians that the information personal on their health will treaties properly by the stakeholders of the community of the health .
honourable senators , that given of this possible and of the fact that all the other sectors of the economy Canadian were unanimous to wish that the bill of bill be adopted quickly , the Committee the is then asked the he there had a way of give satisfaction to those who souhaitaient a Adopted quick of the bill of bill , all in - to the reserves expressed by the sector of the care of health .
the Committee has rejected to the unanimously the idea of from fully to the application of the bill of bill on the protection of the information personal the sector of the care of health , as the have proposed some witnesses .
he has however felt timely of be a brief period to of determine the he is possible of come to a consensus on the changes to to to the bill of bill for to his impact on the sector of the care of health them and field .
Thursday last , we have heard different witnesses representative the sector of the care of health .
of any obviously , they the are concertés before of come testify , because they have all proposed exactly the even amendment ; they have all proposed of expect five years before of opt the sector of the care of health to the provisions of the bill of bill .
that given of the importance capital of the information personal in s of health and of the need that these the be protected by the bill on the protection of the information personal , the Committee believe that five years , this is well too long .
we have deliberation rather for a deadline of a year after the proclamation , or of two years to be of the day where the bill of bill receives the Assent Royal .
the Minister has already said that the bill not will proclaimed that a year after have received the Assent Royal , of so that our proposal is that the deadline be of two years after the Assent Royal or of a year after the proclamation .
, our notice , a deadline of two years should be sufficient for to to the parties interested of the sector of the health and to the officials of the departments of the Health and of the Industry of in come to a consensus on the changes to to to the bill of bill for that he push effectively on the sector of the health and for concerning a good part of the uncertainty who the surrounding now .
we believe also , honourable senators , that the structure of our amendment its a important advantage on the plan of the negotiating .
in effect , we propose , in this amendment , that if , two years after the Assent Royal or a year after the proclamation , no consensus not the is administration and that no amendment not has was introduced , the bill of bill such that wording one in effect in the sector of the health .
by therefore , honourable senators , we believe that this legislation incentive modérément the sector of the health to in come to a consensus to of avoid all the problems which he said the concern .
the fact of impose a date limit to which the bill of bill go in effect to least that a consensus not be reached would a way very effective .
I must say , honourable senators , that the Committee has fact a work remarkable in a very short laps of time .
we have had many of p.m. of hearings .
we have entendu25 witnesses , this who is to little close the half of the people who had asked to the departure to be heard .
in the the days of the hearings , of other people the are made in Requesting to be heard .
he is therefore became obvious for the Committee that , if we take find a solution acceptable to the problem of the sector of the health in bearing the bill of bill to the Senate until to this that a solution négociée can be appropriately , he would many of time .
if we had chosen this seaway , the bill of bill not become not bill and he not the apply not to all the other sectors of the economy Canadian who the wish .
by therefore , we have felt that the something logical to to was of not not delay the application of the bill to all the sectors of the economy who wish that the bill of bill be adopted , but of in delay the application to a only sector and for a year only after the proclamation .
this are that , honourable senators , the manipulation of the report .
if you want a analysis more detailed of the evidence heard by the Committee , who , to my notice , will in the sense of the findings of the Committee I you somatotropin to the second part of the report of the Committee , who has was tabled to the Senate yesterday .
I urge the honourable senators to read this part of the report .
I the as , we feel that a postponement of a year after the proclamation , be two years after the Assent Royal , will the held of negotiations very pointues between the departments of the Health and of the Industry and the sector of the health .
in ending , honourable senators , I like also speak of the Act on the protection of the information personal .
he has has that he there had of the vertical Smokers between the bill Bill C - 6 and the Act on the protection of the information personal .
by example , that the Act on the protection of the information personal , be can the address to the Court federal only in the case where the access to of the issues has was refused .
the complaints regarding the raising , the use or the communication of information by a institution government not can to the subject of a referred before the Court federal .
yet , to the words of the bill of bill C - 6 , the complaints regarding the raising , the use or the communication of information by the sector private can to the subject of a call before the Court federal .
honourable senators , in as that parliamentarians , he will without say that we must impose to the institutions government and to the institutions private the same requirements in s of protection of the life privacy .
the Committee in is come to the conclusion that , if the bill of bill C - 6 New in effect , he would to to day the Act on the protection of the information personal for that the institutions government and the institutions private be to the least gives to the same requirements in s of protection of the information personal .
always on this question , honourable senators , if the bill of bill advocating a program of education of the public by the Commissioner to the protection of the life privacy and if the Bill bill C - 6 is of new responsibilities and widening substantially the mandate of the High to the protection of the life privacy , he will of itself , still a time , that a part down of the report of the Committee recommends of any of the resources further to the High to the protection of the life privacy for that he the constitutes of the mandate expanded .
in ending , honourable senators , I attention that the Committee has tried of establish a balance such that the application of this bill of bill to the broader majority of the economy Canadian - or to the more great number of sectors economic - the would without delay and that , for a period very brief , say a year after the proclamation of the bill of bill , this application not toucherait not the sector of the care of health in the hope that , in the 24 months subséquents , we could come to a solution négociée regarding this bill of bill .
is , honourable senators , in what context the at the bill of bill .
the amendment has was adopted to the unanimously to the Committee .
no Senator not has some of opinion dissidente regarding the amendment proposed .
by therefore , honourable senators , I you urge to adopt the report of the Committee .
the hon. Donald H . Oliver :
the hon. Senator would - he of answer to a question ?
the Senator Kirby :
yes .
the Senator Oliver :
you have said all to the long of your intervention that he not there had that a sector who not was not the subject of a consensus and that this was the sector of the care of health .
you have also said that a part of the response résidait in the fact that he is designed as a bill of bill on the trade Electronic and not on the care of health .
that is - this who is went of across and what lesson can from the Senate of this process ?
how can - be the ensure that that not the again not ?
we hostility that a bill of bill and we the throw to the other House .
that is - this who is went of across during this process ?
the Senator Kirby :
I not can that surfacing of the assumptions on that .
your question is excellent .
you if that we we are bone on the substance of the bill of bill and on the reaction that it raises in the people , the of the little of time which we horses and our desire of complete quickly our study .
this that I me without to say is was of various citations of evidence rather that of a conclusion detailed .
first , the bill of bill has all of first was a bill of bill on the trade Electronic and on the protection of the information personal in the trade Electronic .
when be think to the trade Electronic , be not think not immediately to the sector of the care of health to the Canada , because he is subventionné by the state .
this is normally this that the be think .
if we find quote all the sectors from to the trade Electronic , even if we Pension to the sector of the care of health , the most of between we the écarteraient .
be can therefore understand that he not has not was to the Prime plan of the negotiations robust .
the second something who topic the bill of bill is that he the applies to the activities trade of the sector private .
of new , when be think to the activities trade , be not is not inclined to think exhausted to the sector of the care of health .
however , when be is " of reflect to the question , be at conscience of the fact that of the Laboratories and other have of the activities trade .
however , when the question of the activities trade is raised for the first time , be not think not immediately that he there has a great number of companies trade in the sector of the care of health .
finally , he there has a factor in the field of the health who not there nowhere on , : a great number of institutions public and private may of the services identiques .
the Laboratories may a example patent .
he there has also of the services of praxithérapie and of the services of diagnosed .
we not by not that they are different , because this are the same people who pay the note .
also , I believe that that has was a oversight of good faith .
he is can - be of note that when this bill of bill has was examined by the Committee of the industry of the House of the Commons - and for to the interest that this bill of bill has been , I wish to you attention that he there has had 18 days of hearings that - with - be has spent very little of time to the health because the witnesses not had not asked to appear before the Committee .
be has many more spoke of the care of health before the Committee Senate that before the Committee of the House , this who not is in nothing a criticism of the Committee of the House .
human in the sector of the health not had including that this bill of bill would of important impact in this sector .
in part , then that be between in of new areas commercial as the trade Electronic and the rest , the barriers traditional between the various sectors of the economy the effondrent .
, the future , when we Working of the bills of bill with these new types of systems of communication , this that the trade Electronic is in fact , we will ensure to adopt of the measures review and to consolidate all the it .
I not think not that who that this be should be to blame , because he not there has not of whipping whipping .
honourable senators , a series of things the are through here by inadvertent .
this is a excellent bill of bill , but the Committee think that he is fair the deal to this problem .
by against , if be this the bill of bill without amendment , be is a bill of bill to a sector important of the society Canadian to the with of the wishes of all the organizations of the society .
we believe that this not is probably not a good way of establish the policy public .
the Senator Oliver :
that me brings to my second question .
a sure number of witnesses of the sector of the health who have appeared have said that a solution possible for them would to annexer their Code such that prepared or amended .
can - you we explain why the Committee not has not agreed these representations from of a sure number of witnesses of the field medical ?
the Senator Kirby :
yes .
this is a good question .
the better example is , of the Association medical Canadian , who had said that we should integrate the Code to the bill of bill .
the problem , this is that you not can the to quickly .
why clerical the Code of the Association medical Canadian and not not , of the Association of the dentists or of the pharmaciens ?
each has the Code of protection of the information personal .
as the moment where you posez this question , you embarquez in the process detailed of negotiations and of institution of a consensus who is required , as I the have said .
the Committee has an that , well that be can act of the so , that insolvent clearly several months .
we have therefore original the Adopted of the bill of bill relatively to the sectors of the economy where all is in the order and of spend the 24 months following to the institution of a consensus .
he is true that several of the agencies professionals and institutionnels have mentioned that they have already a Code of protection of the information personal , of so that the members of the Committee envisageaient with optimism the possible that the be can develop , to the over of this period of 24 months , to from of these various codifies , a together of codifies who would consensus and who the apply to the sector of the care of health .
, our notice , he was better of act of the so rather that of take the Code of the a of the groups , then of the adopt and of the apply to all .
the hon. Lowell Murray :
honourable senators , I reprends that where the senators Oliver and Kirby have - .
first , the people of the sector of the health we have in General said that they not have not in to the development of the Code of the Association Canadian of normalisation on which the bill of bill is based .
second , as the Senator Kirby the has mentioned , some of between them feel that a member of the government their has left bode that the bill of bill not the apply not to the sector of the care of health .
in reality , he seems that he not the applies not to of extensive pans of the sector of the health , be the followed " not commercial " , there including to the links professionals between the patient and the doctor , the patient and the Hospital , and cetera .
what that he in be , when you cherchez to disassociate the activities trade of the activities not trade in the sector of the health , he becomes very difficult of determine where and how will the bill of bill .
these two factors have was very important in this who with the sector of the health .
as to the possible of publish the Code of - of the doctors and of the dentists or of someone other profession in as to the bill of bill , I must say that I have was our tried of the propose .
, the Reading of these codifies , he is clear that they make a together of standards rather higher to the Code obvious of a consensus of the Association Canadian of normalisation .
I believe however that , even if we had decided of the to , we we would " in ground constitutional very little course .
be would left hear that we take legislation and regulate to the regard of the professions , a field who is in the most of the case of the jurisdiction relation of the provinces .
honourable senators , he is needless for I of try of add what that this be to this that we have heard of the on of the chairman of the Committee under form of explanation , of context or of excuse for the amendment which we are before .
the intervention to this regard has was complete and specific , and I me outline of say that I am fully of agreed with all this that he has said .
I hope that the amendment will gain the approval of the Senate and finally of the government and of the House of the Commons .
I take however of the opportunity for thank the chairman of the Committee of we have led to good port and with success , until to this , all to the long of a review very carefully of a legislation legislative very important to which we have spent a 20 of p.m. .
I the thank of we have wishes to a solution ; well that it not has can - be not was the solution hurling of all those who have before before the Committee or even of all the members of the Committee , it represents however a compromise hon. and practice who , I the as , will gain the approval of the Senate and of the government .
the task not has not was easy for him , and we all , members of the Committee , apprécions his patience and the leadership .
I the as , I not add nothing to the explanation and to the context that he we has presentations regarding the sector of the health .
I wish however to attention a other aspect of the bill of bill .
this not is not a point on which the Committee the is by , but he the is of a something who me concern many .
I you the attention only for you ask of there reflect this night because I have the intention of there to to the step of the third Reading to of propose all probably a amendment .
honourable senators , that a clause of this bill of bill , of the information very personal collected by of the businesses trade in the framework of their activities can be releases 20 years after the Late of the people in question .
, my notice , this clause is indéfendable and , if I the can , I hear propose that it be last of the bill of bill to the time of his third Reading .
I have asked to various witnesses who have appeared before the Committee - of the Minister to the Commissioner to the protection of the life privacy , in from by all they of advocates of the rights to the protection of the information personal - of justify the well - based of this clause , and no of them not has could the to .
the only explanation that they have could give , this is that he there a clause step in the Act on the protection of the information personal , a clause who with of the information collected by the government federal and his agencies .
he can there someone reason valid , in the policy government , for be a such clause in this who has with to the information collected by the government - I the know and I like there to more later - , but I not can imagine no ground justified of bring , to someone time that this be , of the information personal on of the cartes of credit , on a mortgage , on of the accountable banking or on a matter of pharmacie , who are collected by of the organizations trade to of the for trade .
of any obviously , the bill of bill with already of the possible of investigate on a crime , of ensure the security national and and of on .
be we has said : " Ces information not can not be releases .
he must have a reason of the to .
can - be the Commissioner to the protection of the life privacy could - he speak to a sure time . "
all that is very subjectif , particularly 20 years after the Late of the people in question .
a lawyer who has appeared before we , Mr. Lawson , which I have spoke yesterday , and who is , as the most of the people who have appeared before we , a as advocate of the bill of bill , has said that , that him , the right to the protection of the life privacy not should the apply that to the people creations .
I am all to fact against this idea and I am of notice that we should the reject .
I not to not studying on the speech that I will probably tomorrow after - afternoon , but I like you in give a before - for .
I to that you sagacity that I you saisirai of this clause and I urge the colleagues to me provide a excuse detailed , the they the can .
if , I you inviterai to you join to I for amend the bill of bill to the step of the third Reading of way to are this clause .
honourable senators , as I the have mentioned to the second Reading , in large , this is a bill of bill who considerable and deserves of benefit of the support of all to the House and across to the country among those who are to the aware .
this is that he étendra the protection of the Act on the protection of the information personal to the great amount of information personal that the businesses trade stood on each of we in the framework of their transactions .
, the exception of the clause which I have spoke all to the hour , all allows of believe that these measures of protection are solid and effective .
as the Senator Kirby we the has said , this bill of bill is the result of a consensus extraordinary which are upon the sector private , the government federal , the various groups of Defence of the protection of the life privacy and the groups of Defence of the freedoms fundamental .
the government can to fair as be proud of have known throughout this consensus .
for all those and all those who believe , and I think that the most of between we in are , that the protection of the life privacy fact part integral of the dignity and of the self human and that this is a right human , he the is of a step major .
I believe that in be the bill of bill we will substantially improved the measures of protection and the framework legal of the rights human in this country .
all the Canadians not are can - be not to the aware of this that we are in are of debate and of to today today , but I think that this bill of bill amended will the a of the accomplissements historic of this Parliament or of the past Parliaments .
the hon. Sharon Carstairs :
honourable senators , I thank the Senator Murray and the Senator Kirby for the excellent work that they have fact in this who with this bill of bill .
the Senator Murray not is not normally member of the Committee but , as he the has said more earlier in the intervention , this is a legislation legislative to which he the is always interested .
well that in principle that not be not provided in the Rules of the Senate of the Canada , our Committee steering was composed of four members .
the Senator LeBreton , the Senator Kirby and I - even have associated the Senator Murray to our discussions in reason of the interest deep that he relates to this legislation legislative .
as the Senator Kirby and the Senator Murray , I support in General the bill of bill C - 6 .
I support also the amendment without no contingency .
that intéressera can - be the Senator Murray and the Senator Kirby of know that be just fair of me delivering a letter from of the Association dental Canadian .
the association not like not particularly this amendment .
it wanted that we seeing in a other leadership .
his representatives we have asked to the meeting of the Committee of strengthen the bill .
they have said that the Association dental Canadian had always was in favour of the Adopted of the bill of bill C - 6 , easier of the amendments who assureraient a more great protection of the information personal that the provisions of the Code CSA , in require the consent enlightened of the interested .
I am of agreed with them .
I souhaiterais I also strengthen this protection .
the impasse before which the was found the Committee was result to the question of the consent .
if we had ' of side all the other aspects of the bill of bill for not deal that of the exercise for the health community of a protection increased of the life privacy , I not think not , honourable senators , that we have could adopt the less clause of this bill of bill before can - be six months .
our amendment had for subject of speed the Adopted and the application of the sections by of the trade Electronic in outside of the framework of the health .
between - time , we could take the time of reflect , not not necessarily to the Senate , but in the framework of talks with the sector of the health , the sector of the industry , the ministers of the Health and of the Industry and their officials respective .
all these parties commission have could to to the point of the changes who have for to this text of answer to the needs and objectives of the industry of the care of health .
honourable senators , this question the is was to the centre of my concerns for the office of our study of the bill of bill .
some witnesses not have treaty that of the sections regarding the trade Electronic .
they constituency the industry of the technology , the ordinatique in someone so , the sector of the Banking , the sector of the marketing , and they were all supportive to the bill of bill , not formulant that of the objections minor regarding his substance .
in fact , they there expressed with enthusiasm .
they the are helpfulness of the achievement monumental that had was the fact of have rallié the consensus of all these groups to the about of the Code of the CSA .
the members of the Committee not have not eighth to out that he not there had not consensus in the as medical .
the doctors and the dentists have supported that their own codifies were senior to the model of the CSA .
the pharmaciens , for their on , and those who stood of the information on the services of health decades a exemption total .
for my on , I not was not interested to the their to .
the they want use or sell my information personal , I should have my word to say on the information who their tomberont between the hands .
fact more important still , we not have never discussed of two questions cruciales , be the regarding of the long " activity commercial " and " consent enlightened " .
I have was vehemence of hear the Commissioner to the protection of the information personal say that all the consentements are of the consentements foreseeable .
despite all the respect that I must to Bruce Phillips , I not am not of this notice .
if be me dragged in a Room of emergency where I me ' before five doctors and 16 other members of the staff who me say that I have need of some interventions Medical of emergency , I will sign not any what .
I hope that those who will have to the deal to my place signeront not any what for that I be the care necessary .
but this not is not a consent enlightened .
I not know not the effects high of the treatment préconisé and , to the further , I not me in concern not angry .
the question of the regarding not has not was clear consideration , in this who with the information personal in s of health .
I support therefore without reserves the recommendation of the Committee be that we prévoyions a deadline for study some of these problems .
honourable senators , he must acculer the parties in because to the at of the Dickie .
the members of the Committee have heard of the evidence varying and who sèment the confusion .
he must of the time for define of the rules clear for the information personal in s of health after have had of the trade with all those who stood or are these information .
he not enough not of delay of two years the into in effect of the bill of bill for to our objective .
the Canadians deserve that of the lines guidelines clear cover the use of their matter medical and not including their consent enlightened to this effect .
the Canadians not wish not , for the most , that their matter medical be sufficient to the point that he not can not serve to of the research to to find a ahead to a illness or to a affection .
if this information is necessary for test of new pharmacare , he will find then a balance .
a such balance not there not in this bill of bill .
we can only hope that this balance will found through to our reflection and to this amendment .
the hon. Jerahmiel S . Grafstein :
honourable senators , I have a brief question to for .
I in have caring the Senator Carstairs more earlier today today .
I not have not examined the bill of bill also carefully that I would should the to and I not have not took knowledge of the evidence .
however , in listening the argumentations , I me ask if the be not should not have for policy public of from the identity of the human which the information is required of the content of this information .
by example , the Princess Wichmartin Hospital , to Toronto , with each year 60 . women afflicted of the cancer of the within .
, side , the donor of the cancer of the within of the Mount Sinai Hospital receives 25 . women by year .
this is and that in this périmètre of someone 92 metres , 85 . may are soignées each year for the cancer of the within .
the information to this about is now recueillie and colligée with of the researchers and diagnosticiens and regroupée in of the points centraux .
of great progress have was made , to all the least , in the treatment of the cancer of the within .
that the said , if the be to do a treatment , the content of the information is indissociable of the progress made by the sector of the research .
if this information not was not recueillie , colligée and triée , the fight against this terrible illness that is the cancer of the within not progresserait not .
the even reaching worth also for the HIV or any illness who we tragedy .
I not have not too including if the Committee or the amendment with that of this question fundamental .
in reality , atténue be the problem or difficult be the task of the researchers who must have access to this information for the Progress of the research ?
, the place of improve the situation , not are - we not in are of to vaine the research ?
the Senator Carstairs :
honourable senators , you be can - be it of learn that we have heard the evidence of two groups of researchers which the opinions divergent on this question .
a group is of notice that he must establish more of measures of control for protect the life privacy of the people who fournissent the information .
the other group believe that the research of this nature not must absolutely not be set to the provisions of the bill of bill .
he believes that these measures of control provoqueraient the scenario assistance that the hon. Senator just of record relatively to the inability of produce the information cope necessary .
the hon. Senator has explained our dilemma .
we have heard of the presentations very seriously of witnesses who we have said that this bill of bill misconduct the raising of data of research as the that has which the hon. Senator .
of other have claimed that he not visiting not to the raising .
of this manner , we not porterons not or to the research .
our researchers have fact of the good work to this regard in the past .
of such would that anyone not to not participate to a bill of research should have the right of refuse that the work lost to situation bill .
he must therefore do of the protocoles .
frankly , however , he we must of the time for the to .
the Senator Grafstein :
honourable senators , if this bill of bill give place to a dilemma , why the motions ?
why we believe - we forced of study this bill of bill if some of his supporters grow of seriously doubts to the regard ?
the Senator Carstairs :
the problem with this bill of bill , Senator Grafstein , this is that , of way general , human - and certainly human to the House of the Commons - not the is focused on the impact of the information in s of health on the bill of bill .
the Senator Grafstein :
still of the work bâclé to the other place .
the Senator Carstairs :
they have fact a work bâclé to the other place .
be said in any justice however , they not the have not fact deliberately .
the stakeholders of the sector of the health have them - same called the Department of the Industry .
they him have said : " said bill of bill with the trade Electronic .
he not has not of effect on we . "
by therefore , the representatives of the health who have normally appeared before we to the beginning of the process not the have not fact because that they thought that the bill of bill not would not of effect on them .
this not is that in May or in June of this year , after the study of the bill of bill to the other place , that the stakeholders of the health are their enough worried for say : " said bill of bill will of the effects on we .
fortunately that he there has a second House , a House of reflection , because we can now go him with our point of view . "
and this is exactly this that they have fact .
that the said , the bill of bill with without doubt to 90 per of trade Electronic , and almost not of the sector of the health .
be there is of interesting changes thereby the protection of the information personal in the field of the trade by Internet and that the Exchange and the Electronic of information on Internet .
these measures should enter in effect as that possible .
I not like not delay all the process to because of this window that , I the hope , we have met and by which a over of renewal sweep for that we can continue of to the question and , can - be , impose of the changes supportive in this who with the information in s of health public .
the Hon. the Speaker :
you pleasure - he , honourable senators , of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
with we
( the motion is agreed , and the report is adopted to the majority . )
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when read - we this bill of bill , such that amended , for the second time ?
( on the motion of the Senator Kirby , the third Reading of the bill of bill is placed to the order of the day of the next Senate . )
the bill on the stopped judicial
bill of bill Amend - Adopted of the report of the Committee
the order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Milne , seconded by the hon. Senator Chalifoux , Honourable to the Adopted of the second report of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional ( bill of bill C - 7 , Act amend the Act on the stopped judicial and a other bill in make , with of the amendments ) , presented to the Senate the 30 November 99 .
the hon. Pierre Claude Nolin :
honourable senators , I attempt of be short .
I not have not the intention of an the exploration of the components of this bill of bill .
I rise the speak today today for support the Adopted of the second report of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional regarding the bill of bill C - 7 .
he is obvious , honourable senators , that when he the is of abuse sexual to of the children or of the people vulnerable , he must act rapid .
a abuse sexual in is a of too .
the consequences are serious and we must to all this who is in our power as parliamentarians for avoid that of such events not the occur .
I like shown today today the need for the Parliament federal of adopt the bill of bill C - 7 , in me reference to a case of abuse sexual provide more earlier this year on three children in a " of the Quebec .
I not nommerai not the city , because that the accusations criminal are pendantes .
I attempt as that to the can of not not too identify the circumstances nominatives of this question criminal , but I to attempt when even of you the to all in complying the rules parliamentarians .
in 1985 , a man well in view of a city Quebec creates a " .
he the is of the unique " of this community stretch to closest of Montreal .
the 22 November last , he is - and accused of abuse sexual on three fillettes of four years who him had was confiées .
has in freedom the even day , he is - of new the next for be business on the be of the " and for have spoke to of the éducatrices of the " , and therefore of have contrevenu to the conditions of his implementation in freedom .
this is the Branch of the protection of the Youth who has alerté the police municipale after have received a phase of parents who association the services of the " .
this who has ' the gun to the poudres to the Quebec , this is that be has discovered recently that this even individual , in 1992 , had was found found and had received a condemnation with sentence for of the actions similar .
, the time , human , in the city where he had created the " , even the services of police , not had was ' to the aware of the history criminals of the requérant .
the Leader of police of the community in question where the is the " not has took knowledge of the history criminals of the individual that the 26 October last , therefore few days before that the actions of charge not be brought against the individual in question .
honourable senators , these events have brought several remous in the society and the media Quebec to the over of the two or three past weeks .
the Minister Quebec licensing to the channel , Ms L , has should answer to the accusations of laxisme who were directed against the Department in this who has with to the process of audit of the history criminals of the owners of " during of the Building of a for of operation for this type of activity .
for avoid that the parents who envoient their children in the garderies calling not lose confidence in the system of granting of the for of operation of a " , the Minister of the Sécurité public , Mr. Ménard , has announced , the 25 November last , a plan of action for correct this situation .
this last for a more great cooperation between the Department of the channel and the Sûreté of the Quebec for that the history judicial of all the choose of for of garderies be audited for avoid that of the case as , which I you have relaté the facts more earlier not the occur .
the even day , the Minister licensing to the channel has also announced of the measures additional for answer to the concerns raised by a member Liberal of the Assembly national , Mr. Copeman .
this last had asked to the government , the 25 November last , during of the period of the questions to the Assembly national , if the measures of checks of the history judicial the étendaient to the 12 . workers Quebec of the system of the garderies .
that the Minister L , a new mechanism of control should be ' in place of here the beginning of the year next , therefore in few days , for whether the antécédent judicial of the 12 . workers of garderies of the Quebec .
a part of this responsibility donate of the holders of for of services of Access and of the members of the advice of Administration of the centres of the small boyhood , which will by , all contrôlés by the Department of the Sécurité public .
this broader operation of audit morosity to the over of the next days and the will , in the months to come , of way intensive .
I am course , honourable senators , that those of between you who have followed the business of this House on the bill of bill C - 7 me see come .
the Assembly national , in the effervescence , had about , if this not had was by this won of circumstances , who not is certainly not happy , that this question meeting of the jurisdiction of the Parliament federal .
when be the concern of this who the is past during of this event to the Quebec , be not can that be satisfy of the spur of this Parliament to the with on the measures contained in the bill of bill C - 7 .
I not had not the intention of speak at , but I wanted you relater this history morbide who has over currently to the Quebec .
as we the " the Senator Andreychuk yesterday , the bill of bill C - 7 not is certainly not a panacea .
he not denying not all .
he not would not believe that because that we at in place these measures , we will all protected now when we placerons our children in " .
, the contrary , we autorisons the implementation in place of a mechanism additionnel of protection of the children and of the people vulnerable .
I hope that this legislation can benefit of your support to the step of the third Reading and that it will to to of the Canada a society where the be is still able of live in security .
honourable senators , I like say few words to the about of the bill of bill C - 7 , Act amend the Act on the stopped judicial .
the chairman of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional , the hon. Lorna Milne , has treaty yesterday of the report of our Committee .
I support this report .
the bill of bill C - 7 relates essentially on the process of preventative and is to facilitate the réinsertion social of the offenders who have demonstrated , when they were incarcérés , their will of become of the citizens respectueux of the laws .
this bill of bill omissions to the departure some are who have was corrigées through to the amendments made by the Committee .
and , be ' now in the bill the definition of the word " child " and of the expression " people vulnerable " .
be not can not since in the regulations of the regarding also important .
the powers regulatory are now some in the bill ; the system of marquage of the casiers judicial is limited to the individuals who have was burdened for of the offences to uniqueness body .
, this regard , a list of the offences i has was added in as to the bill of bill .
I must say , in ending that when the Committee of the Affairs legal and Constitutional is a matter on the stopped judicial , as this is the case in the its decision or on a about as the ADN , we redoublons always of efforts for well we ensure that the Charter Canadian of the rights and freedoms is respected .
we know all that the sections 7 and 8 of our Charter constitutional base the life privacy .
this is a value fundamental in our system .
I think that the be can say that the bill of bill C - 7 , who is to the study , respect to the better of our knowledge the Constitution , there including the Charter constitutional of 1982 .
the hon. Joan Fraser :
honourable senators , I like say few words on the question raised yesterday by the Senator Andreychuk because that it is very important .
it the concern , and with reason , of the possible that we portions it to the integrity of the system of shirts if we start to the gruger slowly .
I believe that the members of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional are all to fact prepared to recognize that , first , we want preserve the integrity of the system and , second , the bill of bill not relates not it to this integrity and the exception that he for , that given of the number total of pardons accorded , is if mineure and if valid that we not should not we in preoccupied addition legislation .
honourable senators , this is statistiquement a small exception , and I have thought that you reach it to know these statistics .
, the over of the 28 past years , close of a quarter of million of pardons have was accorded , all offences confondues .
only 4 500 of these pardons have was accorded to of the authors of offences to uniqueness body .
we about here of a very small over of the total .
he is very clear that the bill of bill , such that amended , not is that the offences to uniqueness body .
he will the Authorized of the Parliament for any other it to the integrity of the system of the pardons , and I believe that the Parliament réfléchira seriously before of body to this system .
the Hon. the Speaker :
if no other hon. Senator not to take the speak , I call to the Senators the motion to Adopted of the report .
pleasure - he to the honourable senators of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed , and the report is adopted . )
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when this bill of bill will he read a third time ?
( on the motion of the Senator Fraser , the third Reading of the bill of bill , such that amended , is placed to the order of the day of the next Senate . )
section Canadian of the Church morave of America
bill of bill private to to amend the bill of incorporation - Second Reading
the hon. Nicholas W . Taylor move that the Bill bill S - 14 , Act amend the bill establish in human moral the Council of the former of the section Canadian of the Church morave of America , be read a second time . - (
the hon. Senator Taylor ) .
this bill of bill has understand the step of the second Reading three time to the over of the six past years .
this time - this , nothing not has changed .
the Church morave of America the is Anzac here to the turning of the century , fair after the creation of the Senate .
the Senate the interest to this bill of bill since 1986 , year where the Church the is for the first time material to him for to amend the behalf for that he be the even in French and in English and for to amend his human moral .
these people not unhappy not the to here for ask our leave , but this was a of the sections initial of the Church to the turning of the century .
I please therefore the honourable senators of to current this bill of bill .
the Hon. the Speaker :
you pleasure - he , honourable senators , of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed and the bill of bill is read a second time . )
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when read - we this bill of bill a third time ?
the Senator Taylor :
honourable senators , with your leave , to the next Senate of the Senate .
the Hon. the Speaker :
hon. Senator Taylor , the bills of bill are normally removed to a Committee .
this is the practice usual .
the Senator Taylor :
I the know , honourable senators , but this not is not a bill of bill as .
this is the third time that he just before we .
however , that the , I move that the bill of bill be referred to the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional .
the Hon. the Speaker :
he is proposed by the hon. Senator Taylor and seconded by the hon. Senator Poy that the bill of bill be referred to the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional .
the hon. Eymard G . Corbin :
honourable senators , to least that someone a has of the comments special to to to the about of this bill of bill and that given of the fact that he has already was referred to the Committee , as the hon. Senator Taylor just all fair of the say , the House has certainly the power of decide of ; this part of the process and of from to the third Reading .
I me ask the he not there has not a will of act of the so , to least that he there has a part of controversy who deserves of be reconsidered to the step of the Committee .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I am well course fully to the clause of the Senate .
I wanted simply remind to the Senate that the used to that all the bills of bill be removed to of the committees .
the Senator Corbin :
I will then propose a motion in this sense .
the Hon. the Speaker :
I am sorry , I have a motion to the study .
the Senator Corbin :
in this case , honourable senators , I move a amendment to the motion .
I move that the bill of bill not be not referred , as this is the used , audit Committee , but that the Senate consente to the read a third time to the next Senate .
the Hon. the Speaker :
pleasure - he to the honourable senators of adopt the motion of amendment ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion of amendment is agreed . )
the Hon. the Speaker :
pleasure - he to the honourable senators of adopt the motion and amended ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion amended is agreed and the third Reading of the bill of bill is placed to the order of the day of the next Senate . )
Energy , environment and resources natural
Authorized to the Committee of Services of the staff and of the adjourn
the order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Spivak , seconded by the hon. Senator Cochrane :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the energy , of the environment and of the resources natural be authorized to clerical the services of counsel , technical , employees of office or other elements necessary for to the bills of bill , the substance of the bills of bill and the forecasts budget who him have was referred ; and
that the Committee be authorized to the adjourn to across the Canada and to the abroad to the for of such reviews . - (
the hon. Senator Hays ) .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I have had the opportunity of discuss of this motion with the author , the Senator Spivak .
I suggestion that we traitions of this question now .
if the Senate there agreed , we could amend the motion or the deal to the way of a amendment .
I suggestion that the Senator Spivak amend the motion in deleting the words " and to the abroad " in the last sentence of so that the motion the would as following : " That the Committee be authorized to the adjourn to across the Canada to the for of such reviews " , and not not as it the reads now , to know " That the Committee be authorized to the adjourn to across the Canada and to the abroad to the for of such reviews " .
I urge the Senator Spivak to we to on of his comments to this about .
the hon. Mira Spivak :
the Senator Hays :
honourable senators , I not believe not power accept of the conditions , but I can can - be satisfy the Senator Spivak in him receive that I not know no other Committee who has a such power .
he is in my intention , in as that Leader Deputy of the government to the Senate , of adopt the even Position to the regard of the Committee of the energy , of the resources natural and of the environment .
well heard , Senator Spivak , all Committee can come in this chamber to of obtain the leave or of the instructions for travel outside of the Canada .
I hope that that satisfy the Senator for this question .
the hon. Fernand Robichaud :
honourable senators , the amendment proposed by the hon. Senator Hays ask that the Committee " be authorized to the adjourn to across the Canada " .
the year last , the Committee of the fisheries and of the Oceans wanted the adjourn to the for of a study and be him has more or least recommended of not not the to by the through of a under - Committee because that that asked to the Committee of Authorize of the Estimates .
in this case , the Committee receives - he the Authorized and the funds necessary , automatically , for the adjourn across to the Canada without in to a ask to the Committee of the Economy Economy ?
the Senator Hays :
honourable senators , I will deal that as a question who me is material during of the debate on the about .
the response to the question of the Senator Robichaud on the fact that of the resources be automatically allouées to a Committee for of the trips to the Canada is " not , this not is not the case " .
in as that former - chairman of the Committee of the energy and human responsible of the allocations of the mandate enough broad that I a now in doubt in as that Leader Deputy of the government , this mandate broad had was asked because that the Committee has used of participate to of the conferences and to of the events who have place in of other parties of the Canada .
by example , the Senator Spivak me has indicated that the Committee would send a or of the representative ( s ) to the conference GLOBE 2000 .
the Committee has always sent a representative to this conference and this last fact a report to the Committee .
I think that that the turns very useful for the business of the Committee .
however , for obtain the resources necessary for there send a member of the Committee , he must from by the Committee Standing of the Economy Economy , of the Budgets and of the Administration and to approve the budget .
usually , this Committee the fact .
this is the only response that I am in legislation of provide to the Senator Robichaud .
I urge the Senator Spivak to we would if it is interested to amend his motion or the he is necessary of there to of the changes .
the Senator Spivak :
honourable senators , I am interested to the amend .
for answer to the Senator Robichaud , all the appropriation are précisés and will internally to further to the seen of the business who we expect in the year to come .
the Hon. the Speaker :
Senator Spivak , must - I in déduire that you souhaitez that be retirés of your motion the words " and to the abroad " ?
the Senator Spivak :
all simply the words " and to the abroad " .
is this that I wish are .
the Senator Hays :
only the words " and to the abroad " .
the Senator Spivak :
this is exactly .
the Hon. the Speaker :
have - we the consent unanimous for are these words ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , back to the motion key such that amended .
could - we the to to the Senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Hon. the Speaker :
of the Senators :
enough !
the Hon. the Speaker :
pleasure - he to the Senator of adopt the motion amended ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion amended is agreed . )
review of the policy Canadian antidrogues
motion Motion the training of a Committee Senate Special - Adjourned of the debate
the hon. Pierre Claude Nolin , pursuant to the notice of the 2 November 99 , move :
that a Committee Special of the Senate be up to of reassess the laws and the political Canadian antidrogues , of consult been the public Canadian for determine the needs speak of the different regions of the country , more particularly that where the problems social from to the ' and to the use of drugs addressed are more overcoming , of develop of the proposals for according any information Current to the policy Canadian antidrogues and , finally , of produce of the recommendations for in come to the Adopted of a strategy antidrogues implementation to the point by and for the Canadians encouraged all the levels of government to work in close cooperation to the reduction of the barristers from to the consumption of drugs addressed .
without that this who following has for effect of limit the mandate , that the Committee be authorized to :
- review the approach agreed by the government federal for combat the consumption of drugs addressed to the Canada , the effectiveness as way of reduce the effects of the consumption of stupéfiants and the legislation in which the application is fair ;
- develop a policy national of reduction of the barristers to of relieve the impacts negative of the consumption of drugs addressed to the Canada and to of the recommendations on the way of apply this policy , including the possible of consider before all the use and the abuse of drugs as a problem socio - sanitaire ;
- study the models of reduction of the barristers adopted by of other country and determine , the he there would place , of the apply some or contributor , to the Canada ;
- to the role and the obligations international who describes to the Canada in under of the conventions of the Nations Nations on the stupéfiants , of the Declaration Universal of the rights of the man and of other treaties other to of determine if these treaties the is to take of the measures other that the from criminal and the pénalisation of the Offenders to the has international ;
- urge the effects of the fibre on the health and study the question of know if the employment of political alternatives to the about of the use of the fibre conduirait to a increase of the use and of the abuse to short and to long term ;
- study the possible that the government logjam of the power of regulatory that him authority the Act on the contraventions as way Supplementary of apply a policy of reduction of the barristers as he is of use in of other juridictions ;
- study any other question Current to the policy Canadian antidrogues that the Committee Justice appropriate for chamber the mandate .
that the Committee Special be composed of five senators and that the quorum be of three members ;
that the Committee has the power of to appear of the people and of produce of the documents , of hear of the witnesses , of to report of time to other and of to print to the day the day documents , you and evidence that the instructions of the Committee ;
that the you received and the evidence heard during of the review of the bill of bill C - 8 , Act to on the regulatory of some drugs and of their observation and that of other marine , by the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional during the second session of the 30 - fifth Parliament , be referred to the Committee ;
that the Committee be authorized to Authorize , the he the Justice timely , the television , the appropriate and the Electronic by the through of the media electronic of the all or of a part of his deliberations and of the information that he Canada ;
that the Committee be authorized to sit for the adjournments of the Senate in under of the paragraph 95 ( 2 ) of the Rules of the Senate ; and
that the Committee its the report final to the more later three years after the date of his creation .
today today , I can you say that I am more determined that never to go of the before with this bill .
I the have ample fact during of my speech of the 14 June last .
honourable senators , to the over of the 30 past years , the much of our governments successive in this matter and the developing of the War against the drug in riel since the beginning of the years 80 have cost very sir to the society Canadian .
the costs associated to the control and to the repression of the drugs illégales are without common legislation with the level of consumption or with his effects on the society or the individuals .
you me well admit , honourable senators , that this is a situation who deserves a review of the more rigorous .
this is why , the 2 November last , I have tabled to new before this House a motion Requesting that a Committee Special of the Senate be up to of reassess the laws and the political Canadian antidrogues .
the objective of this year will , first , of give to the Canadians a information exactly and its Current to the drugs illégales ; second , of assessment the moral of notions of the society Canadian to the regard of the use of the drugs illégales and , finally , of give to the government Canadian the information necessary to that he can expand and implanter a legislation and of the political legitimate who reflect the values and the will of the people Canadian in this who has with to the drugs now identifiées as the illégales .
honourable senators , you have perceived , without doubt , a change of attitude in the Canadians in this who has with to the political of control of the drugs and to their results .
the Canadians and the may are to the to that that the are of money important net in the repression of the consumption and of the ' of the stupéfiants not are not the results was .
we have also need of know the experiences which in this field in of other country .
we we must of assessment the solutions of alternative fortitude by of other country , of the solutions least density and who make a better réinsertion social of a - important of the society .
during all the was last , I have had the opportunity of although the country and of meet several Canadians who were agréablement surprised by my intention of you ask of create a Committee Special of the Senate for reassess the policy Canadian antidrogues .
they from of all the as .
I have met of the policiers , of the stakeholders with of the users of drugs , of the doctors , of the Fathers and of the mothers of family , of the lawyers , of the senators , of the not of university , of the students , of the journalists .
I have also in to several shows of lines open to the over of the was .
many of stakeholders were of agreed for say that the policy of the government in s of control of drugs not works not and that , finally , this policy of repression top extremely sir and causait many more of wrong that of well .
number of people and of institutions me have offered their expertise , their resources and their participation to the business of the future Committee .
, the over des15 past years , Mr. Puder the is fought against the ravages engendrés by the War against the drug on the public of the will poor of this city .
he has spent the rest of his life to organizing of the campaigns of prevention and of education with of the young of the community , for their shown the consequences Rural of the use of marine addressed .
he has also took on to of many campaigns for ask to the government federal of adopt a policy antidrogues who maybe this problem as the a question of health public rather that criminal .
I wish to would , by the this speech , my sincere sympathy to the members of his family .
I wish also to tribute to the courage and to the determination dontM. Puder has fact evidence to the over of the past years and that to the together of the work .
I will out that the message of sympathy of the Senator Chalifoux to the place has was noticed and appreciate .
the months last , I have in to two million similar to the ; of Ottawa and of Moncton .
despite a from responsible , of many students the are Earmarked for participate to these discussions .
in reaction to the announcement of my bill , several editors and commentators of the media of across to the Canada have airport hiring .
these the have was surprised that a such initiative provienne of the Senate .
I say that they have was the Tabled of my motion as a bouffée of air costs in the loss policy Canadian .
, this as , in the edition of the 21 June last , the Globe and Mail " that the Senate was absolutely give the agreed to this bill for shown a time for all that our political current in s of the drugs not working more , and I quote :
some questions of policy public are so épineuses that the politicians are almost all for avoid of in speak .
the conception legal of the use not medical of the drugs is a of these questions ...
a report seriously of the Senate could with the cost direct high of the policy current and the compare with , of solutions of alternative realistic .
if this report people a broader support with of the public , he could convince the politicians timides that of the reforms are palatable .
this is the policy , not the reason , who has took the members to refuse he there has three years a bill of study Joint of the question by the Commons and the Senate .
the senators accompliraient a service public the they the chargeaient them - same of this study .
honourable senators , the 26 November last , during of the caucus of the mayors of the 21 more major cities of the Canada , the members of the Federation Canadian of the municipalities , I have presented my bill .
this association , who so more of higher municipalities Canadian , has adopted , he there has two years , a resolution who support the policy prohibitionniste of the government federal in s of control of the drugs addressed .
this resolution enjoignait the authorities federal to not not amend the provisions of the current Act Drugs some drugs and other marine .
however , the 21 April last , the Association Canadian of the leaders of police has recommended to the government federal of décriminaliser and not of légaliser the possession of small amount of stupéfiants , including the héroïne .
this who was the more encouraged in the taken of Position of the Association Canadian of the leaders of police , this is that it recommended to the public Canadian and to the government federal of adopt a approach who traiterait all the questions provisions to the consumption abusive of stupéfiants as a problem of health public .
I wish to you remind that this Position has was seconded by the Mounted Royal of the Canada .
since this taken of Position , the Federation Canadian of the municipalities is in are of its his own Position on this question .
it attempts of expand a new strategy in this field , new on the reduction of the barristers to the users of drugs .
the federation , to the behalf of his members , has fact can a letter to the Minister of the Justice Requesting that the government creates a forum where this question would debated .
this is this that I you move today today with the creation of a Committee Special on the drugs illégales .
the municipalities have a role important to play in the reform of our political antidrogues .
they are the level of government the more it of the citizen .
they roles a Position privileged for determine what are the major problems and consequences Social engendrés by our political répressives antidrogues .
the mayors are aware of this responsibility and they have asked this that they could to for amend this situation .
as we all , they are to the research of solutions alternatives to these problems social .
as we , they in are came to the conclusion that the political of repression used for the control of the drugs illégales are inefficient and conscious very sir to the citizens .
by , , the members of the caucus of the mayors of the major cities Canadian have helpfulness the members of the Senate of have well was the proposal that I have introduced in June last .
of more , the caucus has adopted to the unanimously and in the entirety the motion who is before you .
, this effect , is this that the mayor of Edmonton , Bill Smith , wrote in his letter of the 29 November 99 :
I support certainly the motion that you have introduced to the Senate .
, my notice , that just certainly étayer the need of a Senate and the good work that gets this institution .
as I the have said to the meeting , that me " always of hear of the people to the Canada criticize the Senate .
I know personally of many senators and I know to what point they working very for the Canada .
I wish to out that several of the mayors that I have met souhaitaient to their contribution to the business of this Committee .
back now to the conduct of the business of the Committee .
, from of the mandate described in the motion , the study that I you move today today will divided in 12 themes .
the honourable senators who want participate to the business are the welcome but , to of the for of effectiveness , I attempts of limit to five the senators who will attitrés to the business of the Committee .
each of the five senators who will members of the Committee will the Services to take in with the business of research of two or three des12 themes .
I wish to you in avertir , the task of lead the research and of sélectionner of the witnesses not will not for only to the steering of the research and to the coordinator of the Committee .
he the is of a work rigorous .
each of the senators who will in for these issues will to report to the other members of the Committee of the Progress of his research .
some of between you will can - be say that he the is of a approach too its .
, this , I contend that I believe firmly that in be this way of work , we able chamber our mandate of a way objective and serious .
we want give a information transparent , objective and verified by the members of the Committee .
if we want rise the debate to a level more seriously and well inform the Canadians and the government , we not have not of other choice that of adopt this type of approach .
honourable senators , I not have not the intention today today of to in detail each of the 12 themes who will included in this study .
I will speak only of those who are really important to my be for that the Committee can study these questions .
you have all , I in am sure , took knowledge of the document that I you had has in June last .
when they will informed , the Committee will the invite to participate to our business for attempt of discover what is their level of notions in s of drugs .
why have - I used the word " notions " , honourable senators ?
you will understand in read the come on the history of the Prohibition to the Canada and in the world .
you will understand that the questions of health public not have never was taken in that when had the time of legislation and of prohiber , and this as the first Prohibition , who has was the of the opium .
he not has never or almost was question of health public , but he has ample was question of notions public , of racism , of trade international , of the importance that be was to to the companies of products pharmaceutical .
all the questions of trade and of notions have engendré the Prohibition that be knows today today .
the Canadians understand that all the participating of these treaties have led tranquillement the public of our country , because the parliamentarians , of good faith , not the are never retournés for see of where had the Prohibition .
be has believed this that our from we had said , be has foncé and be has continued to prohiber and to sign of the treaties for prohiber still more .
today today , be the ' in the situation that the Dr. Riley you has which in the report that I have tabled in June last .
I could you in speak for long , but I not have not the intention of take more of your time .
you have before you the benchmarks iterations of the mandate that I you ask for the Committee , a mandate of a office of three years .
as I the have said all to the hour , each member would the responsibility of some facets of the mandate overall , and this is a work very rigorous .
why ?
he there already many of research scientific in this field .
this is can - be the about who has was the more examined in the second half of the 20 century .
he the is of eliminate this type of research and of the focus with hold on the research scientific all .
each member of the Committee would the responsibility of a of the facets of the review .
all that can easily the échelonner on close of two years .
after that , he the is of write a report interim , of inform the Canadians of this that we will discovered , of significant then their reactions for in come to the step of the report .
he there will in over of road a election federal .
I can think that we will to even of avoid the écueils that can we to a election federal , particularly when he is question of a about also sensitive .
I rather therefore have more of time for to the work and and avoid of be forced of produce a report who will looked in pâture to of the politicians who not rechercheront that of the issues for which the emotions of the Canadians could be éveillées without that be their give any the information necessary .
( on the motion of the Senator Kenny , the debate is adjourned . )
fisheries
Authorized to the Committee of study of the questions provisions to the mandate
the hon. Gerald J . Comeau , pursuant to the notice 2 December 99 , move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the fisheries be authorized to study , to of to a report on of the questions provisions to the industry of the fisheries ;
that the Committee it report to the more later the 12 December 2000 ; and
that the Committee be authorized , notwithstanding the practices considered , to table the report with of the Greffier of the Senate if the Senate not seat not , and that obedience report be being have was tabled to the Senate .
the hon. John Lynch - Lynch ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I like to a observation on the development of the order of referred to the regard of a great question as the of the fisheries , who is vital and that I support fully .
the week last , we in have public a on the agriculture and a other on the Forestry .
the Senator Nolin in ask a on the drugs addressed .
the Senator Kirby in ask a on the services of health .
some of the studies in question dureront can - be a year or two .
in the case of the of the Senator Nolin , it will three years .
before of approver these studies special , we should obtain a view of the costs in question , of as more that , to my knowledge , the budget of our committees - I not believe not that the situation has changed these past years - is always very limited .
he the is probably of the as budget the more canvassed and always under - supported .
I not to not to a preferment to the study proposed by the senators Comeau and Robichaud .
before that we not seeing too far , I believe however that we should have a view General of this that these studies part to the Senate and of the amount that we are prepared to Services to the over of the two and three next years .
we constaterons can - be that we not able not complete some of these studies , fault of funds or of prévoyance .
the Senator Comeau :
the problem that he there has to to a budget before of obtain a mandate , this is that without mandate , be not can to a budget .
of first , he must have the mandate and then , we can we address to our Committee and prepare the budget .
if the Committee Standing of the Economy Economy , of the Budgets and of the Administration believes that we should go of the before with the study , be can in discuss to this time - that , but we not can all simply not prepare a budget without have to the pre a mandate .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I have a question to for to the Senator Comeau .
I think that I know the response , but let - I of the confirm .
I believe that this motion is introduced with the approval of the members of the Committee , and I i that this is a approval unanimous , but I apprécierais a observation to this about .
I understand the point of view defended by the Senator Lynch - Lynch and that , of the Senator Comeau .
in as that chairman of a Committee , he is difficult of know this who on in Prime in these case - that .
what that he in be , I know that the Committee has fact of the excellent work to the over of the last Parliament to the on of a referred of this such .
the Committee has given that of a referred to the budget of the Estimates for Corrections the study , and we in clearer that to a time of in this chamber .
I like that be me say this that he in is of the decision of the Committee of before the Senate of this motion .
the Senator Comeau :
honourable senators , the motion which about the Leader Deputy , be the to on the Estimates of the Estimates , is the third motion that I will to .
I there viendrai in a moment .
my third motion move that , to the case where the Estimates of the Estimates would referred to the Committee , we are the way of table the report on these forecasts budget .
however , for the moment , if the forecasts budget not are not renvoyées to our Committee , well heard , we not the renverrons not to the Clerk if the Senate not seat not .
the hon. Fernand Robichaud :
honourable senators , if I then add few comments and can - be anyone the hon. Senator Lynch - Lynch , when we have considered this motion , he the was in fact of have a mandate enough broad for we to of study all the questions provisions to the fisheries .
he was all to fact heard that if we find travel , a budget would prepared and presented to the Committee of the Economy Economy , of the Budgets and of the Administration to that we can respect the guidelines that each Committee has showed of control his Estimates .
the year last , the Committee of the fisheries and of the Oceans has s has a trip on the Coast Western because that be not could not find the funds necessary for do this trip . It
is well including that this not is not a question of budget and of the expressed a little across to the Canada .
the Senator Lynch - Lynch :
this not was not my intention of let confused a doubt around of the motion of the Senator Comeau .
I wanted ask that be be as that possible always intending of the fact that our Budgets are very limited .
also laudable that be the studies Province , particularly those who the prolongent on a period of two or three years , he would good that the Senate be before of the costs immediately for not not have of bad surprises .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , no other Senator not to take the speak .
you pleasure - he of adopt the motion , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
Authorized to the Committee of to the Electronic of his deliberations by of the means electronic
the hon. Gerald J . Comeau , pursuant to the notice du2 December 99 , move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the fisheries be authorized to to the with of his deliberations public by the media of information electronic , in disruption the least possible his business .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , you pleasure - he of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
Authorized to the Committee of Services of the staff
the hon. Gerald J . Comeau , pursuant to the notice that he has of the 2 December 99 , move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the fisheries be authorized to clerical the services of counsel , technical , employees of office or other elements necessary for to the bills of bill , the substance of bills of bill and the forecasts budget who him have was referred .
( the motion is agreed . )
transport and Communications
Authorized to the Committee of according his deliberations by the media of information electronic
the hon. Lise Bacon , pursuant to the notice of the 6 December 99 , move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the transport and of the Communications be authorized to to the Electronic of his deliberations public by the media of information electronic , of manner to him the least possible his business .
the hon. Eymard G . Corbin :
honourable senators , of more in more , all the committees are to the Senate the Authorized of radiodiffuser and of télédiffuser their hearings public .
be in is came to the point where the be should give a licensing general to all the committees who want proceed of the so .
be in when even to a time where all the world is branché , all the world to look and listen .
this prerequisite is become redundant .
the Committee of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure should the with on this pre and he should biffer of the Rules this prerequisite .
be would the committees with of their heartened in this field .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , there has he of other senators who would take the speak ?
of the Senators :
not .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , you pleasure - he of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
Authorized to the Committee of clerical of the services
the hon. Lise Bacon , pursuant to the notice of the 6 December 99 , move :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the transport and of the Communications be authorized to clerical the services of counsel , technical , employees of office or other elements necessary for to the bills of bill , the substance of bills of bill and the forecasts budget who him have was referred .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , you pleasure - he of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
( the Senate the adjourned to the Wednesday 8 December 99 , to 13 p.m. 30 . )
debates of the Senate ( Hansard )
wondering Session , Session st ,
volume 6,401 , Issue 18
the Wednesday 8 December 99
the hon. Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker
table of the Contents
' ' '
the maturation in Although
the Ontario
the bill on the restructuring regional - Position proposal of to Ottawa officially bilingual
Affairs routine
Library of the Parliament
Presented of the Prime report of the Committee Joint
agriculture and Forestry
Tabled of the Prime report of the Committee
land - Newfoundland
the reform of the system school - Position amendment to the clause 17 of the Constitution - Report of the Prime report of the Committee Joint Special
languages official
Presented of the Prime report of the Committee Joint Standing
PERIOD PERIOD question
the transport
the airport of Fredericton - - of of the negotiations Honourable to the transfer to the Administration aéroportuaire local
the airport of Fredericton - - inaptitude of the system of pistes to welcome some aircraft
the Affairs Intergovernmental
the Ontario - Position restructuring regional municipale - - refusal of the province of to the capital national bilingual
the transport
the acquisition of the Airlines air Canadian International by Air Canada - Position regulatory of a requires monopoly in the industry of the transportation of the travellers air - Position policy of the government
air Canada - - increase of the rates air
Affairs Social , Science and Technology
bill of bill on the protection of the information personal and the documents electronic - - Opposition of the on of the government of the Alberta
the transport
air Canada - Position increase of the rates
the heritage
the status of the development commemorative of the Holocaust
order DAY THE
bill of bill on the protection of the information personal and on the documents electronic
third Reading - motion of amendment - Adjourned of the debate
the Act on the stopped judicial
bill of bill Amend - Third Reading
the Estimates of the Estimates of 99 - 2000
Adopted of the report of the Committee of the Finance national on the Estimates Supplementary of the Estimates ( A )
bill of bill admissibility the taken of some decisions Medical
second Reading - Continued of the debate
section Canadian of the church morave of amérique
bill of bill private to to amend the Act of incorporation - Third Reading
the business of the Senate
use to the Rules - Ruling of the Speaker
the SENATE
the Wednesday 8 December 99
the Senate is met to 13 p.m. 30 , the Speaker the to the Chair .
prayers .
the maturation in Although
the hon. Lucie pin :
honourable senators , he there has three weeks , of the researchers of the University McGill have said have helped with success several couples to do of the babies , even of the calves , through to a new method révolutionnaire .
the method who removing the changing of the ovules immatures of a mother in embryons the Order the maturation in Although .
the MIV result of the method of fécondation in Although who has révolutionné the treatment of the infertility in the years 70 .
the maturation in Although from of the fécondité in Although of the fact that , in the MIV , the ovule is took to mature then fécondé to the outside of the utérus of the mother , then that , in the FIV , the ovule already mature is fécondé in laboratory .
the MIV has was implementation to the point in Korea of the South and in Australia to the beginning of the years 90 to the intention of the women which the ovules not could be drew naturally to mature .
until to recently , the rate of success of the MIV was low , but the Dr. Seang ' Tan , steering of the 251 of obstétrique and of gynécologie to the University McGill , has changed the things .
in réussissant to have the ovules to mature to the outside of the body , he has open the relates to of new ' of fécondation in Although can a rate of success higher to the low 20 per present .
this technical seems succeed to the women who have tried without success of become nursing by of other means .
in addition , it costs the half of this that top the FIV .
what wonderful new for the couples who will in benefit !
but that in is - he for our society ?
with the variety of new technical of reproductive , the response , this is that we are in the uncertainty .
we are very happy for the couples who , through to this Technology , will capable of have of the children .
but the things not are not also simple .
who should benefit of this Technology ?
who has access to this treatment ?
that must - be know before of the put to this treatment ?
what are the impact incidental of this treatment on the plan moral to short , way and long term ?
the issues are if complex and the applications future of several of these technologies are if extensive .
this is a field where he not there has or says or white , but that of the gris .
in 1993 , the Board Royal on the new technical of reproductive has presented the report fault , between other , of create a commission national on the technical of reproductive .
this commission was supposed to several things .
first , it would Exclusive of the for to the institutions , and would set the standards and eye the practices provisions to the use of the technical of reproductive existing .
second , it would coast , s and release to the public the information on these technologies .
third , he was provided that it monitors the for of technical and of practices new and that it this of the political .
finally , it was facilitate the cooperation governmental in this field .
unfortunately , the government federal not has not of on to this recommendation .
each time that I hear speak of the implementation to the point of a new technical to the Canada , I regret the absence of a commission national .
we not have not of body national responsible of to the questions that an these technical or of in regulate the use .
I urge the government federal to so the recommendations of the commission Royal of 1993 and of take as that possible the measures who the do for create a commission national of the technical of reproductive .
the Ontario
the bill on the restructuring regional - Position proposal of to Ottawa officially bilingual
the hon. Lorna Milne :
honourable senators , of by the right and the Constitution of the Canada , the government of the Ontario is officer of all the municipalities of the province , and the government present is absolutely determined to in to the evidence .
unfortunately , this even government not has never not , not would - this that a second , to impose his will to the citizens of the province .
I wish to out that the government summer not has never forced the municipalities that he has created to adopt the beside " officially bilingual " .
Ottawa is however a pay as nowhere other .
this is the capital national of this country bilingual who is the ours .
honourable senators , I urge the government summer to follow the recommendation Mr. Glen Shortliffe , the ' Special on the restructuring of the region of Ottawa - Carleton , and to to officially bilingual the new city of Ottawa from of the amalgamation , city who is also the capital of the Canada .
of the Senators :
hear !
Affairs routine
Library of the Parliament
Presented of the Prime report of the Committee Joint
the hon. Louis J . Robichaud , Chairman of the Committee Joint Standing of the Library of the Parliament , its the report following :
the Wednesday 8 December 99
the Committee Joint Standing of the Library of the Parliament has the honour of to the
Prime REPORT
your Committee recommends that he be authorized to ' the attests of the Senate and of the House of the Commons in the year of their authority on the Library of the Parliament and that he be authorized to to of the recommendations to the chairmen of the two Houses regarding the Economy of the Library and the good use of the appropriation will by the Parliament to the Purchase of documents or must for to there be tabled .
your Committee recommends that the quorum be established to seven ( 7 ) members , portion that the two Houses be representation each time that he there has a vote or that a resolution or any other decision is taken , and that the chairmen be given to to of the meetings for hear the evidence and to in Authorize the Appendix , portion that four ( 4 ) members be attendance and that the two Houses be representation .
your Committee recommends also to the Senate that he be authorized to sit during the sittings of the Senate .
a copy of the Procès - Minutes relevant ( meeting No. 1 ) is tabled .
respectfully submitted ,
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when consideration - we this report ?
( on the motion of the Senator Robichaud , the study of the report is placed to the order of the day of the next Senate . )
agriculture and Forestry
Tabled of the Prime report of the Committee
the hon. Joyce Fairbairn :
honourable senators , pursuant to the section 104 of the Rules of the Senate , I have the honour of table the Prime report of the Committee Senate Standing of the agriculture and of the Forestry , who relates on the Estimates incurred by the Committee to the over of the first session of the 30 - sixth Parliament .
( the text of the report is to the Journals of the Senate of today today . )
land - Newfoundland
the reform of the system school - Position amendment to the clause 17 of the Constitution - Report of the Prime report of the Committee Joint Special
the hon. Joyce Fairbairn :
honourable senators , pursuant to the section 104 of the Rules of the Senate , I have the honour of table the Prime report of the Committee Joint Special regarding the amendment to the clause 17 of the Term of the union of Newfoundland - Newfoundland , who relates on the Estimates incurred by the Committee to the over of the first session of the 30 - sixth Parliament .
( the text of the report is to the Journals of the Senate of today today . )
languages official
Presented of the Prime report of the Committee Joint Standing
the hon. Rose - Marie Cool - Losier , co of the Committee Joint Standing of the languages official , its the report following :
the Wednesday 8 December 99
the Committee Joint Standing of the languages official has the honour of to the
Prime REPORT
your Committee , who is authorized by the section 88 of the Act on the languages official of follow the application of the bill , of the regulations and instructions in we , and that the implementation in Bill of the reports of the Commissioner to the languages official , of the Speaker of the Council of the Board and of the Minister of the Heritage Canadian , fact report , pursuant to the section 104 of the Rules , that the Estimates encourues to this end by the Committee to the over of the first session of the 30 - sixth Parliament are the following :
your Committee recommends that the quorum be desept ( 7 ) members , to condition that the two Houses and the Opposition be representation to the time of a vote , of a resolution or of any other decision , and that the chairmen be given to to of the meetings for hear the evidence and to in Authorize the publication as that four ( 4 ) members are attendance , to condition that the two Houses and the Opposition be representation .
during the session , the Committee has examined the Partie VII of the Act on the languages official , in under of which the government federal the commitment to promote the throughout of the minorities francophones and English of the Canada and to support their development .
the Committee has given 28 meetings and heard 47 witnesses .
respectfully submitted ,
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when consideration - we this report ?
( on the motion of the Senator Cool - Losier , the study of the report is placed to the order of the day of the next Senate . )
PERIOD PERIOD question
the transport
the airport of Fredericton - - of of the negotiations Honourable to the transfer to the Administration aéroportuaire local
the hon. M. Robertson :
honourable senators , I like for a question to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
many of parliamentarians of the region of the Atlantic the concern now of the uncertainty on the service Air offered to our more small communities in the region .
however , the airport of Fredericton has a other problem in more of this uncertainty .
all those who under this airport know that he has was out to the over of the years .
the government federal negotiating for transfer the airport to the authorities local .
however , this neglect starts to to feel his effects .
it duration since long , some years .
because that be has out the facilities and that be has fact ignored of the needs current of the airport , that a section which in the on Gleaner , the driven of the Administration aéroportuaire of the Grand Fredericton him have out that a Investment de20 million of $ is necessary for to in so that the airport will to the standards current or to the standards who the do of our days .
be the ask even if the n key not is not too short .
the government federal not is not prepared to to this Investment of 20 billion of $ before of transfer the responsibility of the airport to the operators local .
in this case - that , the Administration aéroportuaire local has little of opportunity of succeed .
he the can also that the revenues aéroportuaires down to the on of the restructuring of the industry of the transportation Air and of a reduction possible of the number of atterrissages .
the opportunity that a new exploitant nervous are still least major .
he the is , to my notice , of a question of equity .
if the Administration aéroportuaire of the Grand Fredericton must have a real opportunity of succeed and of operating the airport , who connection the capital and the centre of the New - Brunswick , the government federal must recognize that he must really , in the framework of the negotiations with the Administration aéroportuaire local on the taken of control of the airport , to that of all the years where he has treaty of way unfair this airport .
the Leader of the government provide he to the Senate a that record of the negotiations on this problem seriously for the people of Fredericton ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I not am not very to the aware of the negotiations in over to the about of the airport of Fredericton , but I know what process has was adopted in of other regions of the country .
I know particularly well the case of the airport of Halifax , where a process similar has was adopted and where of the questions similar have was raised .
I must here to tribute to my predecessor , the Senator Graham , which the work has widely contributed to convince the government federal of fund the improvements made to the capital of the airport of Halifax .
of any obviously , this is a question who is should when of such negotiations are businesses .
a precedent has certainly was established .
as to know what will the outcome of these negotiations , I not am surely not in legislation of surfacing of the assumptions , but I am aware of the importance of the problem .
I am prepared to to on of the concerns of the Senator to the Minister in because .
the Senator Robertson :
Mr. the Minister , I you in would very grateful , all as the would without doubt also of other senators .
he seems that be has answered enough well to their needs .
however , we would obtain a that record of your intervention with of the Minister to of ensure to this that the situation own to Fredericton be resolved quickly and with many of equity .
we are with forward of obtain your response to this about .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I am recognize prepared to to this question with the Minister of the Transport , the hon. David Collenette .
of more , when the opportunity the will , I me will a happy of discuss of the problem with my colleague of the Council private from of the province of the New - Brunswick .
the airport of Fredericton - - inaptitude of the system of pistes to welcome some aircraft
the hon. ë A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I have a question Supplementary .
the Leader of the government could - he , to the over of his discussion with the Minister of the Transport regarding the airport of Fredericton , draw the attention of this last on the study of 1992 of the Department of the Transport who illegality the need of extend to 78 . feet the n is - west ?
now , this n not can welcome that of the aircraft turbopropulseurs .
the n south - west can welcome of the DC9 and of the BAC146 and , when he fact a , the from to reaction regional .
I ask to the Minister of to the question with the colleague , the Minister of the Transport , but also with a other of his colleagues , the Minister of the Defence national .
other said , honourable senators , the Airbus of the Forces Canadian not can not atterrir on the more great basic of the Forces Canadian to the Canada , this who seems enough invraisemblable .
when he there has of the travelling of soldiers of the basic of Gagetown - and he the is of the more great basic of the Forces Canadian not only to the Canada , but also , to the level geographical , to the Commonwealth British - they must the to in bus to Moncton , where the is a n more long as welcome the Airbus of the Forces Canadian .
I me ask if the second dimension of this need , implementation in obviously in the own study of the Department of the Transport of 1992 and then in the fact that the army of Gagetown the is that and that the military not can not there to atterrir their aircraft , could be should .
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I would happy of would to the ministers in question the comments of the Leader Deputy of the Opposition .
the Affairs Intergovernmental
the Ontario - Position restructuring regional municipale - - refusal of the province of to the capital national bilingual
the hon. Jean - Robert Gauthier :
honourable senators , my question the is to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
the capital of the country , Migu Harris and company , would therefore unilingual English .
this new city of Ottawa regroupera under a even Administration all the municipalities urban of the region of Ottawa - Carleton .
this decision of the government Conservative Mr. Harris demonstrates to what point he know the reality Canadian , a country to two languages official .
he is unacceptable and intolérable that the Canada has a capital national unilingual .
we would the unique capital to the world who " the bilingualism institutional .
I not know not of country to two languages official or more who not has not respected the duality linguistic in his capital .
the Minister can - he we say if the government federal has the intention of to pressure with Mr. Harris and of the government for that he respect the two languages official , be the French and the English , in the capital of our country ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , the statements who have was made to the Senate by the Senator and that by the Senator Milne more earlier and of other yesterday reflect my point of view be that he is absolutely that the capital of the country be bilingual .
the Administration municipale is certainly a responsibility provincial , but Ottawa is a city similar to no other to the country .
it is the capital of the country .
before of answer to the behalf of the government , honourable senators , I like to upon that I believe firmly that the city of Ottawa must be a capital national bilingual .
honourable senators , the Prime Minister has spoke publicly to this regard .
he bestow with the Prime Minister of the Ontario and the pressera of take the measures who the do for ensure to this that the capital of the country be déclarée officially bilingual .
the hon. Pierre Claude Nolin :
honourable senators , I " the response given by the Leader of the government and I am fully of agreed with him .
the Senator Gauthier :
honourable senators , I understand the Position of the government .
the pay of Ottawa - Carleton is a creation of the government provincial and is therefore under his juridiction .
all of even , the Minister can - he say if the government federal , before a refusal of the province of to the capital national bilingual , disposes the power constitutional or the powers that him authority the Act on the languages official for correct this situation and to in so that a city of Ottawa agrandie be and remains the capital national of the country with two languages official ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , a sure number of people férues in s constitutional , there including of the senators , are of notice that the section 16 of the Act constitutional authority a sure power to the government federal for speak in of the questions similar .
all this that I then say of a point of view legal , this is that the government federal and the Prime Minister are , in this time even , in are of to the question .
any question constitutional is complex and does usually a review carefully .
frankly , I think that the government préférerait that the question be resolved without use to the courts .
hope that the Prime Minister of the Ontario will to the wishes clear views of the public of the country , of the senators , of the Prime Minister and of other personalities .
he is to hope that the Prime Minister of the Ontario will these about to the seriously and that he finds the fusil of épaule .
the Senator Nolin :
honourable senators , my question the is to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
I am of agreed with your response and with this that your government attempts of say .
he not fact no doubt that we will we for the question , to know this that we will of the region of Hull , who fact also part of the region of the capital national .
this is a all other problem .
what assistance financial are - you prepared to to to of you ensure that the government of the Ontario not using not the reasons economic for avoid of change the situation ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , he the is of a question who ask of frank discussions between the Prime Minister of the Canada and , of the Ontario .
I believe that these discussions will place and that the Prime Minister of the Canada off then , when he will in consideration all the comments who will was made , of the least in this House , that we are very supportive to of the measures to to to in so that Ottawa be a capital bilingual .
he would impossible of to of the conjectures on the details of these discussions for the moment .
however , the message has was of clear .
the government of the Canada and the Prime Minister the taking to the seriously .
be hope that the Prime Minister of the Ontario in will as .
the hon. Marcel homme man :
honourable senators , after of long deliberations , the Queen Victoria had decided that Ottawa would the capital of the Canada .
Montreal , Kingston and Toronto had we was of the capitales , and the things not the were not well fellow in no of these cities .
this is Ottawa who had was taken .
I as with the Senator Nolin that be would favourite that Hull be added to Ottawa , but however , Ottawa is the capital of the Canada .
I am can - be little in disagreement with my colleague , in this sense that the government federal should be of the funds or a your .
I ask that Ottawa reflects a ideal .
I , I am a Canadian French of the Quebec .
by therefore , the government federal should remind to the people of Ottawa and to the government of the Ontario that this city should dawn really this that be wanted that it be , the capital of all the Canada .
since I like be positive , I remove even that the hon. Leader of the government think , with all his colleagues , to propose a motion to the Senate to of remind to all the responsible that Ottawa should dawn the real nature of the Canada .
the Leader of the government songera he to propose a simple resolution of the Senate for remind to all the world that Ottawa should represent all the Canadians ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , we réfléchirons certainly to this suggestion .
by , , I like also me to the here of this that the hon. Senator has said in the preamble .
he has was many more eloquent to this about that I not could the be , but he the is certainly of a case of a importance serious for we all .
the transport
the acquisition of the Airlines air Canadian International by Air Canada - Position regulatory of a requires monopoly in the industry of the transportation of the travellers air - Position policy of the government
the hon. J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , I have two or three questions regarding Air Canada and his merger with Canadian International and the any last decision of Air Canada .
as we the know all , Air Canada has now order to the 23 December the date limit for the Tabled and the regulation final of the actions and and of on .
the society Air Canada not has not indicated of way detailed in what ; the problems , but it has left hear that it for to obtain the consent of agencies of regulatory , of even that a confusion of the provisions of a bill of new regulatory or of new policy .
must - I in déduire of these statements general that be has proposed someone something in this sense , that be in has discussed with the leaders of Air Canada and that their review of the proposal the on ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
the Senator Forrestall :
this is because that this was a section of the Presse Canadian .
the Senator Boudreau :
the Committee of the transport of the House of the Commons has tabled the report .
the Senator Kinsella :
he not the is however not - to the section 47 .
the Senator Boudreau :
he not fact no doubt that the report of the Committee Senate of the transport and of the Communications will tabled very soon .
the two reports may can - be a direction as to a policy specific in s of transportation Air .
I am to the aware of the ground of the postponement of the offer of Air Canada .
all this that I know for the time , I the have read in the Globe and Mail .
air Canada - - increase of the rates air
the hon. J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , we have seen Air Canada preferred a second step .
the first step , who has consisté to let hear that , if the government tried of someone way that this be of reduce his freedom of movement , it would the offer , this who would the écrouler all the bill of merger , has had the effect of a real gifle to the government of the Canada and to all the Canadians reasonable .
he there has certainly someone something who the as to the about of the rates in the discussions between the government of the Canada and Air Canada .
in reason of the increase of the price of the fuel , we come fair of order a increase general of 3 per of the rates air , this who is a real abuse .
these rates are always and not redescendent never .
human not seems know why they not can not redescendre .
there has he of the discussions on the process of regulatory between the government of the Canada and Air Canada who justifieraient that the society air take of all the opportunities , pools the competition and it encaisser to the consumers a increase of 3 per of the rates ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
the interests of the public Canadian , of the small communities of all the Canada and of the travellers will to the heart of any discussion with Air Canada .
the Senator Forrestall :
honourable senators , the Leader of the government to the Senate could - he we say if be will ask to Air Canada of cancel the increase of 3 per until to this that a deadline décent the be has ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I not think not that he me responsibility of defend a transporteur Air national .
however , be we said that the increase is result to the fact that the cost of the fuel the is increased , if I not me read , of 100 per to the over of the the months .
if the price of the fuel down , we will if the rates air down also .
Affairs Social , Science and Technology
bill of bill on the protection of the information personal and the documents electronic - - Opposition of the on of the government of the Alberta
the hon. Douglas Roche :
honourable senators , my question the is to the chairman of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology .
the chairman has fact referring to a letter that two ministers of the government of the Alberta , Shirley McClellan , Minister of the on international and Intergovernmental , and Walter Paszkowski , Minister of the Affairs municipal , him have sent the 7 December for the against to the bill of bill C - 6 , to on the protection of the information personal .
in this letter who has was widely accepted and who is the second communication from of the government of the Alberta , the province is to obtain of the amendments to the bill of bill for are the sections who empiètent on the jurisdiction of the provinces , and that of other provisions .
given of the representations leadership made by the government of the Alberta on the question of jurisdiction , what is the response of the chairman to the statement of the Alberta that which , if this bill of bill is adopted , the Alberta could be sterilization of one the constitutionality of this legislation for maintain his powers to the words of the Constitution ?
the hon. Michael Kirby :
honourable senators , I will answer to the last question in all Prime place .
even if some , including the government of the Alberta , can think that the bill of bill is unconstitutional , the constitutional consulted by the Committee and , in fact , by the government are all to fact confident that the bill of bill will felt constitutional .
the first question is a little more complex , to know that this bill of bill not the apply not to the activities intraprovinciales portion that the province has a bill of bill essentially similar to the bill federal .
he would difficult for the businesses of be gives to two programs , this who would the case if a province was adopt a bill on the protection of the information personal in great part similar to the bill of bill C - 6 .
he is obvious that this is a point of view legitimate and this is this who ask the clause scheduled in the bill of bill federal : if a province this a bill on the protection of the information personal similar in great part , the bill of bill federal not the apply not in this case - that .
rest to know , by example , if the before - bill of bill of the Alberta regarding the health is substantially similar .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , the questions way to the chairman of a Committee not must not to on the about to the study , but strictly on the activities of the Committee .
the questions to on the further of this that is a Committee not are not recevables .
the Senator Roche :
honourable senators , seen these difficulties , there he a reason expliquant why be not has not asked to the government of the Alberta of testify before the Committee for explain his Position , the of that , the 15 October , he had sent a first letter , who just of be followed of a letter quasiment identical ?
the Senator Kirby :
honourable senators , I speak you the confirm tomorrow , but , of after this that I know , be has asked to several provinces who had sent a letter - including the Alberta and the Ontario - if they want appear .
the Ontario has sent of the representatives , which the under - Minister Deputy of the Health .
the Minister not has not appeared .
if I me recall well , and the Clerk of the Committee will the confirm , be has asked to the government of the Alberta the he wanted appear , but he has answered that his letter suffice as testimony and that human not comparaîtrait in the behalf .
the transport
air Canada - Position increase of the rates
the hon. Donald H . Oliver :
honourable senators , my question relates on Air Canada and on the increase of the rates .
the question has already was raised and be there has answered in part , but I would a question supplementary to for to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
that the National Financial , Laura Cook , relates - speak of Air Canada , would said to the about of the increase of the rates that the depository for the States - United and other destinations international had was incorrect and that their price not had not increased in reason of the competition .
therefore , if Air Canada the ' in situation of monopoly to the Canada , without competition , must - he the expect to this that the rates not same of increase ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I not can or confirm or démentir this that just of say the Senator Oliver .
I will however be to obtain more of information and I you in will on to the more soon .
the Senator Oliver :
the Minister not is - he not that he is shocking that the company air increase his rates domestic , but not his rates international ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , this is for the least surprisingly and this is a question who deserves of be took .
the heritage
the status of the development commemorative of the Holocaust
the hon. Colin Kenny :
honourable senators , I have of notice the week last of the question that I me without to for .
of the groups concerned by the status of the Museum commemorative of the Holocaust the are adressés to I .
the Leader of the government to the Senate could - he we say this that he in is of the status of the development ?
the government only - he the commitment in the principle of the implementation in place of a such development ?
if such is the case , can - be the expect to see the matter advance ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , the commémoration of this event horrific in the history of the humanity is a question very important .
unfortunately , I not can not in speak in detail today today .
I me in apologize with of the hon. Senator , and can - be speak - I the to as tomorrow .
order DAY THE
bill of bill on the protection of the information personal and on the documents electronic
third Reading - motion of amendment - Adjourned of the debate
the hon. Lowell Murray :
honourable senators , I have said yesterday that I had the intention of propose a amendment to the step of the third Reading of the bill of bill .
he would can - be good that I it Reading of the amendment before of in speak .
I move , seconded by the hon. Senator Doody :
pleasure - he to the honourable senators of adopt the motion ?
the Senator Murray :
I has of how of time for speak ?
the Hon. the Speaker :
as you are the Prime to speak to the step of the third Reading of the bill of bill , you disposez of 45 minutes .
I must however you prevent that , pursuant to a order of the Senate , the Senate will adjourned 3:30 p.m. 30 .
the Senator Murray :
I you thank , Honour Hon. .
honourable senators , I you somatotropin to the paragraph 7 ( 1 ) , who specific this who following :
for the application of the section 4.3 of the as I and despite the note afférente , the organization not can was of information personal to the insu of the interested and without the consent that in the case following ...
this are of the reasons very valid who , of the notice of any human reasonable , suffiraient to justify the communication of information personal collected to of the for trade .
however , the bill of bill lists then several circumstances more them .
before of to the paragraph which I have proposed the deleting , I évoquerai two of the circumstances them .
the a is to the ( f ) , who by that he would legal of bring of the information personal without the consent of the human fall :
... to of the for statistics or to of the for of study or of research érudites , these for not can be conducted without that the Intelligence be release , the consent is virtually impossible to obtain and the organization informed the Commissioner of the communication before of the to .
nothing not for here that the Commissioner can interrupt the process or speak of someone way in the conduct .
the right that him authority this under - ( is simply , of be informed when the information collected for of the reasons commercial to the about of the human will releases " to of the for statistics or to of the for of study ... "
in under of the ( g ) , the communication of information personal collected by a business is legal if :
... it is made to a institution which the attributions understand the conservation of documents to a importance historic or archivistique , in view of a such conservation .
he the is here of the information personal collected to your about , or to the about of any other human , by of the businesses in the framework of their activities - regarding by example your mortgage , your as of credit , your matter patent .
he is said here that these information personal you regarding can be releases only " to of the for statistics or to of the for of study or of research érudites " or , to the under - ( g ) , to of the for of conservation of documents to a " importance historic or archivistique " .
let - we to the a to this part .
be well age .
in the most of the case , he nes' is not of citizens ordinary .
be would here the right of access to of the information personal regarding of hall personalities , that they are to the world of the policy , to , of the Arts or to a other .
I think that he is time that we fixions a limit .
the people in view have as the right that not any who to the protection of their life privacy .
in this who with the under - limited f ) and g ) , these people will still in life for the there against .
they will , be there , the address to the Commissioner or to the courts , or since of other use before the bill for to protect their information personal .
the clause to which I me am attardé and that I like to are is the under - ( p.m. ) , be that the information personal can be releases in the case where :
on what principle the based be for include a such clause in the bill of bill ?
in the chart of information that the government has fact distribute to the members of the Committee , the explanation given for include this clause is the next :
the Act on the protection of the information personal with of this question in would of the definition of the information personal to the for of the bill the information personal regarding a human died since ninety years .
the approach out in this legislation legislative - this is more restricted , because it allows the disclosure of the information , but those - this remain subject to the bill .
he is true that the Act on the protection of the information personal , who has was agreed he there has few years , protects the information personal that has a institution federal to the about of special .
it exempte of his provisions in s of protection of the information regarding a human who is died since more of 20 years .
as I the have said to several other opportunities , he can there have of good reasons , on the plan of the policy government , of bring after 20 years of the information personal that have of the governments , of table these information to the refrain ; but that not has nothing to see with the bill of bill that we us today today .
we us a bill of bill regarding of the information personal collected in the sector private , and we we asking if a such clause should there .
when the officials have appeared before the Committee , I have asked the question next to Stephanie Perrin , Director of the Politique on the protection of the life privacy of the Group of work on the trade Electronic to the Department of the Industry :
if I understand well this section and this paragraph , have - I reason of think that of the information personal collected by a body - a bank , a society of cartes of credit , a society hypothécaire , a company of insurance , or what still - could be releases 20 years after the Late of the human in question ?
have - I reason of think and ?
Ms Perrin :
that means that he not is not necessary of ask the consent of the interested for book that .
however , the disclosure of information must be valid to the words of the clause Current to the subject of the bill , of so that he must there have a ground legitimate for the disclosure of the information in because .
he there has still a sure number of criteria .
all this that that said , this is that be not has not need of the consent for book the information .
a little more far , it said :
you must actually your reasons , if you représentez a body , for the raising , the use and the disclosure of information personal .
I me am order to the bill of bill for see this which it spoke .
I have read the section 5 , who not is not really useful because that he not fact that we refer to the as 1 and who the states as following :
the employment of the conditionnel in the as as that he the is of a recommendation and not of a obligation .
I me am then order to the as 1 , where are out the principles .
this as with primarily of the raising of information , and not not of disclosure .
, the Reading of the as , be news that the clause Current to the subject must be called in preposition with the clause 4.5 of the as 1 , s : " Limitation of the use , of the communication and of the conservation " .
I me am therefore order to this clause , and that have - I found ?
I have found two or three paragraphs saying that the organizations " should " develop of the lines guidelines and apply of the procedures for the conservation of the information personal .
I have found a other clause who the states as following :
be should destroy , effacer or dépersonnaliser the information personal which be not has more need to the for précitées .
all that not is hardly useful in reason of a clause who for that he would legal of book of the information personal collected for of the reasons commercial 20 years after your Late .
then , Ms Perrin and I are wars in the details , and I like that the senators leaves all major their ears .
this clause there essentially to of the for of refrain and historic .
of any obviously , you not have not still heard the archiviste and the historians .
why the would - he ?
be has already Canada to their interests .
it continues in these words :
they are convinced that , if we not have not a clause can to the agencies private , to the businesses and to the institutions of bring of the information to the companies historic in the purpose of preserve of the issues historic , a information of great value will having .
the bill of bill contains of the provisions for the conservation of the information only also long that it is necessary for the for for which it has was recueillie , this who can strongly get the institutions to destroy the information which they not have more need .
by example , a company of insurance with who you not feriez more case would strongly encouragée by this clause to eliminate the information you regarding when it not in has more need .
however , some information this a interest historic .
a example used in the letters way to the Minister is , of the refrain of the Compagnie of the by of Hudson , which the - this has recently fact don .
Détruisez your as of credit of Position by , honourable senators .
he the is of the issues of the company .
if you upset in the bill of bill a clause who said that the information must be having when you not in have more need , who will of the refrain ?
he rest to the Banking and to the companies of insurance the possible of shown that they have including for service of as of the information as fundamental a importance historic .
it attempts of the justify by of the principles , but I not think not that that be acceptable .
let - I to on that .
he the is here of Affairs personal and of information personal collected to of the for trade .
be it hear that he could there have of good reasons historic for archiver all the information on Jean Chr or on his predecessors or successors , that he the whether of information on his issues of cartes of credit , of mortgage or of pharmacie .
I say that that not we taking not .
I say that this type of information personal not taking human .
of more , I say that we must understand the mentality , and I say that with a sure respect .
I hope always have a sure respect for the science , there including for the Science Social , but we must understand the mentality of the experts in Science Social , of the genealogists and of all the other .
they would we to as all the suffice .
they would we to as all the information , because they believe that these the are relevant , also personal or friends be - they .
they not common never that a across of paper hundred be destroyed , particularly the he with someone a who is felt be relatively important , today today or in the history .
they insistent on the fact that these information their are .
I must add that some witnesses representative of the groups of Defence of the life privacy and some advocates of the freedoms civilian were very difficulty by on this point .
I not believe not that they had thought to the question .
I have asked to a witness of the behalf of Murray Mollard , steering of the British Columbia on Liberties Association , this that he in agreed .
his response has was :
I not believe not that we are a Position official to this about .
he the can that that has or not someone something see with the debate in over on the census .
that not has nothing to see with the census .
we about here of a question commercial .
he has said :
my notice spontané , this is that 20 years , this not is not very long .
why 20 years , I not in know nothing .
and of add a little more later :
can - be my colleagues have - they someone something to add .
I not in see not the reason .
ninety years , that not me seems not very long .
I have fact referring yesterday to the testimony of a lawyer of the behalf of Ian Lawson , of the British - British , who is a an of the right of the life privacy and a parent of our colleague , the Senator Kelly , this that , be said in from , I have discovered after the .
he has said :
can - be the convivial - I , but the right to the life privacy the applies in principle to a human bequeath .
I about of the way of consider the interests in at .
in fact , for this who is of the procedure and of the application of the rights to the protection of the life privacy , I me ask the he would possible that the interest of a human be in at if the human in question is morte .
réfléchissez to the question , honourable senators .
I not am not of agreed Mr. Lawson on this point .
he there has also all they of ramifications for the survivors of the individual in question .
however , the information personal among least exposure to the as and to legislation that the time on .
this is can - be true , honourable senators , but this not is not , to my notice , a reason for bring of the information personal to the about of this human .
it has said then :
he the is of find what would the deadline appropriate .
I not am not assiduously to a deadline .
he the can that a deadline of 20 years not be not sufficient .
this not is not a Position of principle .
for it , this is a question of time .
fortunately , the Commissioner to the protection of the life privacy , Mr. Phillips , has was many more direct .
I you remind that he has was the partisan of the bill of bill the more agressif and the more strong to appear before the Committee .
I him have asked of justify this clause .
I will you read our Exchange .
I say :
... I you urge to justify in principle the clause of the bill of bill that which the information personal collected to of the for trade can be legally ever 20 years after the death of the human that they with .
justifiez it for we .
Mr. . Phillips :
I will try .
this clause is the even that the who the is in the bill current on the protection of the information personal .
it has was written by of the people who , of any obviously , believe that the right to the protection of the information personal expire to the death .
the Senator Murray :
a jurist we has said the even something today today .
Mr. . Phillips :
if this is the case and the he the is of a principle agreed in right , I think that this is a principle regrettable .
I this a point of view different .
I have learned in my quality of High to the protection of the life privacy that many of people the concerned of the information personal who could traîner to left and to right after their death and of this that he where of these information .
he enough simply of think to the example of the efforts been by well of the people to the about of the security and of the inviolabilité of their documents personal after their death .
the proposition that which the people not have not the right to the protection of the life privacy of the fact that they are dead is , to my notice , all to fact unacceptable .
as we the know all the two , this argument is raised in a other context .
be for now in the Act on the protection of the information personal that 20 years after the death of a human , the information personal not are more protected .
the Senator Murray :
he not there has no reason for apply that to the sector commercial as this bill of bill the fact , not is - this not ?
Mr. . Phillips :
I not am not of distinction between the types of information .
this who any this is this that the as in think , Senator .
you have reason .
he must the ask why .
he has answered :
be me has said that the clause which you have spoke was a rule of archivage us .
any disclosure should still respect the rest of the Code .
by example , the disclosure of information personal must be made to the for for which these information have was collected .
he is obvious that the Minister is in the mistake or that he not has not including my question .
if the information are collected for a ask of as of credit or of mortgage or a order to the pharmacie , this is a something .
he is question here of the disclosure of information to the for of archivage for of the for statistics or for of the research érudites or any other something of the such .
I not think not that he has well including the question that I soulevais .
honourable senators , I have said to several occasions that , that I , the government and the Parliament who enter this bill of bill will the in enorgueillir .
in effect , he widening the scope of the Act on the protection of the information personal to the information personal collected in the sector commercial private .
however , the clause can the disclosure 20 years after the death of the interested is , that I , a serious deficiency of a legislation legislative by , excellent .
human not has could defend this clause in the remedied on of the principles , and I think that it is indéfendable .
we know all that the protection of the life privacy has inexorably lost of the ground to the over of the years .
this is the experience that we have known until to now .
this is the sense of the clause that I to to eliminate of the bill of bill .
the right of was and of bring of the information not should not the just on all the other rights .
we can Authorize the Adopted of this clause and hope that it will always used of way responsible and in the respect of the rights legal in ever not existing of the people who the are éteintes , or still we can speak now and protect as we the should the life privacy of the people in this who with the information think personal collected by their discriminates , their lenders mortgage , their pharmaciens and other .
I hope that we will speak and to people this clause of the bill of bill .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I must you inform that , if the hon. Senator Kirby at now the speak , the speech will assimilable to a debate of horses .
the Senator Kirby :
honourable senators , I would me express to the about of the amendment but , what that he in be , I would proposed the adjournment of the debate .
if I have well including the procedure , this is the amendment and not the motion regarding the third Reading who is to the study .
the Hon. the Speaker :
you can speak to the about of the amendment .
the Senator Kirby :
honourable senators , the of the uniqueness education , thought and dynamic as of the intervention of the Senator Murray , I not like not there answer of way inquire this after - afternoon and I would take the speak tomorrow after - afternoon .
I move the adjournment of the debate .
the hon. Douglas Roche :
honourable senators , I called the speak he there has a moment to of ask the leave of for a question to the Senator Murray .
is - you of agreed ?
the Hon. the Speaker :
is - this of agreed , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator Roche :
this question with the excellent remarks that has order the Senator Murray and for which I the thank .
it reprenait and Dunton the words of a letter that the government albertain had material le16 November to the chairman of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology .
he the is of a letter of subject peep against the bill of bill C - 6 .
I not will not the read , but I am prepared to the to circulation .
it not is not indications in the two languages , but I am prepared to the to circulation if a Senator not the has not still received .
short , the government of the Alberta written that this bill of bill be reconsidered and that be there supprime the sections who empiètent on the jurisdiction provincial for give the time to the small and medium businesses of the prepare as he is to the implementation in implement of the bill of bill and for to the resuming of the consultation to to ensure the protection of the information personal .
this is in substance this that ask the Alberta .
the way of to usual is of appear before a Committee for that he examine the bill of bill in question .
I not to not me Services in a long discussion on the reason for which the representatives of the government of the Alberta not have not appeared before the Committee .
he seems that they have présumé that the Committee has took in consideration the letter é November , and this is can - be well the case .
the hon. Senator Murray think he that the amendment that he just of to - and I have listened carefully when he in has statement the uniqueness limitatif - does of manner get to the objections raised by the government of the Alberta ?
if , that should - we to to this about to this step - this ?
we have a province who relates a such interest to the bill of bill that be not should not from addition to his points of view in not the conclusion not enough in consideration before that the Senate not this the bill of bill in third Reading .
the Senator Murray :
first , I not believe not that the government of the Alberta the be concern of the clause that I is to to are of the bill of bill .
second , I must say to my hon. colleague that , for the debate of second Reading , I have expressed the opinion of a layman , to take for this that that worth , in saying that the bill of bill represents a year valid and legitimate of the power of the government federal in s of trade .
third , a opinion more Cabinet in the s has was stated the other day before the Committee Mr. Tassé , a former under - Minister of the Justice , who is of notice that the bill of bill is in the limits of the powers of the Parliament federal .
fourth , the bill of bill there a clause for that this legislation not the apply not to the trade interprovincial of a province who , in a deadline of three years , this a bill of bill " essentially similar " in s of protection of the life privacy .
fifth , well that all the Department worry of the Canada , to this that I far , have asked he there has long that the bill of bill be from for the reasons contained by the government of the Alberta , that not the is not fact .
of the representatives of the government of the Ontario are came before the Committee express their reserves to the regard of various aspects of the bill of bill , but they have refused of express a opinion or of say that the Ontario has a Position on the constitutionality of the bill of bill .
when be their has asked specifically this that they in pensaient , they have simply answered that this was that s to discussion .
a witness heard by the Committee has said that the constitutionality of the bill of bill would inevitably challenged before the courts , and I believe that the future him will reason .
the Senator Roche :
I thank the Senator Murray for this response .
he has said that the problem could be has if the provinces adoptaient of the laws essentially similar to the of the government federal .
the Alberta has s mentioned this point in the letter in saying that , since the expression " essentially similar " not was not occurs in the bill federal , it was too general for to that of the laws correspondantes be adopted .
the Senator Murray :
honourable senators , I not is not the argument raised by the government of the Alberta to the about of the uniqueness enough General of the expression " essentially similar " .
however , I out that the only province who has a bill similar is the Quebec .
the Minister of the Industry , about to the behalf of the government , has already indicated that he jugeait the bill of the Quebec essentially similar to the bill federal .
as to the other provinces , they have three years for consult and discuss .
I believe know that the Alberta is in are of write a bill of bill .
this province not is not bogged in the says .
it can discuss to further of the question with the government federal , this that it fact .
of after the remember that I Access of a before career , the service public benefaction that of the counsel extremely competent in the field of the relations federal - provincial .
I would were to believe that he not is not imagination that the Alberta it evidence of good will and cheques a bill of bill adapté to his needs who be essentially similar to the bill federal .
( on the motion of the Senator Kirby , the debate is adjourned . )
the Act on the stopped judicial
bill of bill Amend - Third Reading
- honourable senators , we know very well now the substance of the bill of bill C - 7 , who is a important legislation .
we in have already was before to the over of the session before .
since that he has was presented the first time , the bill of bill has our has of the work of the Committee Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional , who has ' to the day of serious are in the bill of bill .
the Solicitor General has answered with a largesse of spirit and a speed admirables in élaborant of the amendments to to improve the bill of bill .
in the wording present , the bill of bill is , to my sense , a addition very useful to the right Canadian .
for the essential , this legislation will to the protection of the children and of other people vulnerable who could be the reselling of prédateurs sexual .
honourable senators , he is important of note that he there will of important sauvegardes in this who with the rights of the people réhabilitées .
we take very to the seriously the integrity of the system of preventative .
the access to the information personal on the offender will limited to the policiers given and to the staff of the agencies law of apply the bill .
the postulant will sign a accompany by which he agreed to this that the be added with of the section general of the refrain criminal the he there has in the fichier automatisé a indication can of determine the he there to the about a matter or a increased of a condemnation .
the accompany of consent indiquera that the behalf of this human is in the section normally scellée and made the names of people réhabilitées .
the access to this indication not will possible that in concerning a sure Code in the computer .
this are of important sauvegardes .
in addition , through to the work of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional , the bill of bill specific now that he the applies only to the people our guilty of a offence sexual who are réhabilitées .
in this who with the other offences , the issues of preventative will scellés .
the regarding data in the bill of bill have was our upgraded .
the bill of bill contains now the definition respect " children " and of " people vulnerable " .
given of that this bill has was seconded by all the parties in the other place , of even that by the ministers provincial and territorial of the Justice and the authorities relating of the application of the laws across to the Canada , I believe that we must the support .
( the motion is agreed and the bill of bill amended is read a third time and adopted . )
the Estimates of the Estimates of 99 - 2000
Adopted of the report of the Committee of the Finance national on the Estimates Supplementary of the Estimates ( A )
the Senate on to the study of the second report of the Committee Senate Standing of the Finance national ( Estimates Supplementary of the Estimates ( A ) , 99 - 2000 ) , presented to the Senate the 2 December 99 .
the hon. Anne C . Cools ( over behalf of the Senator Murray ) move :
that the report be adopted .
- honourable senators , I like speak very briefly , now , of this motion who is the more great importance and , by sculptured , of the second report of our Committee of the Finance national on the Estimates Supplementary of the Estimates ( A ) , 99 - 2000 .
the honourable senators will that this report is full and that he contains of the details important on the study of our Committee .
I say that the report is the better tribute that be can to to the Committee .
the Committee of the Finance national is responsible of to the forecasts budget for the Senate ; he assistance the Senate to as his obligations parliamentarians , who consistent to to the forecasts robust and altered of Estimates of the government .
the Committee the is met the Tuesday 23 November 99 to of entendreM. Richard Mr. and Andrew Mr. , representatives of the Council of the Board .
these two officials have fact evidence of the more great openness in their evidence and they have answered to the questions of the senators with many of be and of attention .
this last we has informed that he quittait his duties current for become comptrollership General Deputy .
he we has also informed that he insolvent his new duties to the beginning of December .
I think that I about to the behalf of all the senators who members to the Committee and of all the senators in General when I timely our gratitude and our appreciation for his contributions and for the assistance that he we has made to the Committee to the over of the years , and I think that I about also to the behalf of all the senators when I him wish the more great success in the future .
honourable senators , I like also before this opportunity for thank all the members of the Committee for this that I believe be their study attendee of the Estimates Supplementary of the Estimates ( A ) , and I the thank of their work relentlessly .
I like also thank the Senator Lowell Murray , who has guided of a with firm , fair and experte the Committee in his deliberations .
I like also in benefit for wish the welcome , to the within of the Committee , to two new senators , be the Senator Finnerty and the Senator Finestone .
her the Senator Finestone me informed that it not had not the intention of remain to this Committee , but since that it has attended to his first meeting , it has an that he the was of a good Committee where sit .
that said , honourable senators , I you urge to adopt this report .
the Hon. the Speaker :
pleasure - he to the honourable senators of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed , and the report is adopted . )
bill of bill admissibility the taken of some decisions Medical
second Reading - Continued of the debate
the order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Carstairs , seconded by the hon. Senator pin , Honourable to the second Reading of the bill of bill S - 2 , Act admissibility the taken of decisions Medical legitimate relatively to the treatment of survival and to the treatment of the pain . - (
the hon. Senator Lavoie - Roux )
the hon. Rose - Marie Cool - Losier :
honourable senators , I ask the leave of speak to the step of the second Reading of the bill of bill S - 2 , placed to the order of the day to the behalf of the Senator Lavoie - Roux .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , the leave is - it granted ?
Dex Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator Cool - Losier :
the démographie of the needs in s of health is , without doubt , in evolution Increase .
since 1997 , 40 per of the Canadians and of the may seniors of to the least 30 years are the coping of to the least a member of their family .
, the Canada , a - what , in average , more of years to soigner a parent that to rise a child .
in they that of the fact of our public always ageing , he is time , honourable senators , that a initiative such this bill of bill be business to the Canada .
today today , I like draw your attention on the section 6 of this bill of bill , who is to coordinating , in cooperation with the authorities provincial and the associations of the professionals of the health , the institution of lines guidelines national relatively to the forbearance and the interruption of the treatment of survival , to the treatment of the pain and to the care palliative , to promote and to encourage the education of the great public regarding the treatment of the pain by the means medical and to improve the training of the professionals of the health in this who with the treatment of the pain and the care palliative .
honourable senators , he responsibility to the government federal of establish of the standards who board a quality of care palliative and that a accessibility to these care for all the Canadians and the may who in have need .
the care palliative should be into to the other services of health and idéalement , they should be California the same of a region to the other .
as the has has the Dr. James McGregor , of the Ontario Palliative Care Association , during of the meetings of the Committee Senate Special on the Suicide and the assistance to the suicide , and I quote :
he responsibility to the society , by the business of the government , of the presents of the care of health , of the agencies professionals and of the professionals of the health , of to the resources necessary for ensure a system of support intensif to the intention of the unevenly and of their families .
, this end , he must expand the sector of the care palliative of way to ensure that the skills The are easily available and availability to all .
he is unfortunate that of the Canadians and may continue of die in the suffering because that they not have not access to these skills .
honourable senators , the institution of standards national in s of care palliative your to the needs of the more patients of our society .
I like out the importance of the initiative of the Senator Carstairs , who would for purpose of promote a approach intégrée and of to effective and availability the services of care palliative to across the Canada .
the care palliative are designed for answer not only to the needs physical but also psychological , social , Cultural , émotionnels and spirituels of each human and of his family .
the care palliative help the people patients in end of life to live the time that he their rest in the comfort and the dignity .
they are asset in end of life and to of the cycles more as of the illness .
that a section of the Globe and Mail which the 7 December 99 , four Canadians on five feel that the care to home should to part of a program of care of health gratuit and universal .
the poll editing also that the quarter of the patients pay already of the costs challenges and that a patient on nine who has need of assistance not receives not of care to home , fault of resources financial .
the most of the people who have answered to the poll have said that the quality of the care let to severely , because the government has imposed of the limits on the number authorized of p.m. of care gratuits and that they not had not the means of the to a assistance Supplementary .
that said , we should nurturing and to availability to the more great number possible of citizens of the care palliative of quality who are to their needs .
I like quote as example the Dr. Ferguson , Leader of the program of Hospital extra - mural of the New - Brunswick , for illustrate the need of institutionnaliser the care palliative in the framework of the services of health to the Canada .
I quote the Dr. Ferguson :
in well of the provinces , the care to home the are développés more or least in the framework of a bill or of a program .
in we , to the New - Brunswick , they are part of the system .
we go believe that we have a approach different and we seek to to in so that they be used more effectively .
is our objective , in all case .
I am proud that my province of the New - Brunswick be in advance in the development of the care palliative to the Canada .
I wish that with the support of the Senate and of the House of the Commons , we able adopt of such standards to across the country .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , if no other Senator not to take the speak , this section will remain to the order of the day to the behalf of the Senator Lavoie - Roux .
section Canadian of the church morave of amérique
bill of bill private to to amend the Act of incorporation - Third Reading
the hon. Senator Corbin ) .
( the motion is agreed and the bill of bill , read a third time , is adopted . )
the business of the Senate
use to the Rules - Ruling of the Speaker
the hon. John Lynch - Lynch ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , before that we not emotions to the motion of adjournment , yesterday , I have invoqué the Rules with the Senator Kinsella to the about of the acceptability of a report presented by a member of a Committee who , seems he , not was not authorized to the to to the behalf of the Committee .
I had believed understand that His Hon. they his decision that - with , because the Committee of the Affairs foreign has already appear a meeting for discuss of the question formula in this report .
I to me ensure that the use to the Rules is has before that this Committee not entreprenne the study of a report who him has was referred .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , this who the snapshots to the within of the committees not is not of my jurisdiction .
this are the committees them - same who decision of their operating .
however , in this who with the Presented of reports , I you somatotropin to the paragraph 97 ( 1 ) , who said :
the report of a Committee particular must be presented by the chairman of the Committee or by a Senator appropriately by the chairman .
when a report is presented , I not have not the power of me ask if the Senator the what has was appropriately for this to .
I wish for learning that the chairman of the Committee the has appropriately .
the Senator Lynch - Lynch :
the Exchange of yesterday with the Senator Tkachuk , vice - chairman of the Committee , has revealed that the Committee not had not appropriately the Senator Payette - Hervieux for to the report .
the hon. Leo E . Kolber :
honourable senators , I devais to the report the week last , but be me has said of expect .
I would could the to today today , but not yesterday .
we stopped that he be presented yesterday .
and , as I believe in have the right , I have responsible the Senator Payette - Hervieux of the to .
the Senator Lynch - Lynch :
the Rules is very clear .
this not is not the chairman of the Committee who délègue this power , but the Committee .
the Hon. just of quote the paragraph 97 ( 1 ) of the Rules .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the Rules said that this is the chairman who must designate the replacement .
I as the text of the section :
the report of a Committee particular must be presented by the chairman of the Committee or by a Senator appropriately by the chairman .
as the chairman has said that he had of the Authorized , the case 730 to my authority .
the Senator Lynch - Lynch :
honourable senators , I not to not delay the study of the bill of bill .
I its my apologize to the Senator Kolber for have suggested that the Committee not had can - be not respected the Rules .
the second question who had was raised was of know how transfer a report , for the Affairs offered , of the Senate to a other Committee without that the Senate has the word to say in the s .
if the senators would that I in about with the Speaker after these deliberations to that we can from to of other business to 15 p.m. 30 , I me would a happy of ask to the Senator Hays of to the motion of adjournment .
however , he is to my notice important that all the honourable senators are exactly the procedure followed and that it their be expliquée when it is for them , as this is here my case , source of confusion .
the Hon. the Speaker :
if the honourable senators are loans to me listen , I will try of tidy the second part of the use to the Rules .
the history has project the week last , and I have quoted the Journals of the Senate of the 24 November , regarding the decision taken by the Senate to the about of the bill of bill S - 3 :
the bill of bill is then read the second time .
the hon. Senator Hays move , seconded by the hon. Senator MLA , that the bill of bill be referred to the Committee Senate Standing of the Banking and of the trade .
after debate ,
with the leave of the Senate and pursuant , section 30 of the Rules , the motion is amended and the reads as following :
that the bill of bill be referred to the Committee Senate Standing of the Banking and of the trade and to the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign .
the motion , such that amended , implementation to the Senators , is agreed .
honourable senators , this is that a procedure very unusual .
he not between certainly not in the rules of the art of refer a even bill of bill to two committees .
after all , how the there at - be for all to this result ?
by therefore , if I have well including , the bill of bill has was referred to the Committee Senate Standing of the Banking and of the trade .
the Committee the has examined and no amendment not has was proposed .
the Committee has presented a report to the about of the bill of bill .
I must you refer to the paragraph 97 ( 4 ) of the Rules , who specific this who following :
when a Committee fact report of a bill of bill without amendment , obedience report is considered as adopted without no motion ; the Senator who my the bill of bill move then that the third Reading in be made a other day .
however , as I just of the read , the Senate had ordered the referred of the bill of bill to the other Committee .
and , a Committee to fact report of the bill of bill without proposals of amendment , I have an that he not was not from to the third Reading of the bill of bill because that he was still be referred to the other Committee .
this is this that the Senate has decided .
he had was provided of the refer to the other Committee , and this is this that said the motion .
I know how be would could act other to the about of the report that given of the decision taken by the Senate the week before .
I had the hands related by the decision of the Senate of refer the bill of bill to two committees .
I not see not how be would could act other for apply the decision of the Senate .
the Senator Lynch - Lynch :
he would was better , to the time of the Tabled of the report and to the call of the third Reading , that the Senate say , for be therefore with his decision : " - bill of bill not will not read a third time .
we have decided of the refer to a Committee . "
I have had the Appendix that the Speaker has short - circuité the Senate .
for some , this not is that a detail about , but I think that he any that he continues of to to the senators of determine this that he look of a bill of bill or of a report .
I understand the situation in which the senators of the side first have ' Honour Hon. , since this are them who have decided of refer the bill of bill to two committees .
the Senator Hays has was the situation to the clear the second day .
each time that the senators of the side first suggéreront of refer a even bill of bill to two committees , the honourable senators can be amorphous that we will the first to we there against .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , since he we rest few minutes before of rise the Senate , and since this is I who am the author of this new procedure , a procedure who slogan to my notice of very well operate , I like benefit of the opportunity for say few words to this about .
I have fact the subject of criticism urgently of the on of my colleagues and of Honour Hon. , and that of the on of the other author , could - I say , of this procedure , well that I doubt that he in accept the paternité .
I to that the be understands well that the situation is unusual .
however , the education given by the Senate is enough clear , of so that the Speaker the has well make .
this is that where ahead the risk of confusion .
the way which we , to the Senate , have tried of with the problem , this was , to my suggestion , of provide in the order that the bill of bill be referred to the Committee Senate Standing of the Banking and of the trade , this who has was fact , and that a time that this Committee would debated the review , this who the is fact , the bill of bill be referred to the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign for that he the examine to the turn .
the solution agreed not will however not until to say how the Senate must the with of the question of manner to avoid the problem of procedure that this of the reports successive .
the solution that we has proposed His Hon. me believe good .
the education to this regard must be considered as a order Special of the Senate proposed with the leave of the Senate 24 November and for that , notwithstanding the paragraph 97 ( 4 ) of the Rules , the bill of bill is considered referred to the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign .
that respect exactly the education that the Senate has given to the two committees who have was law of to the bill of bill .
by therefore , honourable senators , I believe that this way of proceed is the better solution and that it will .
I understand the concerns of the Senator Lynch - Lynch and of other senators , who are that this way of to not be not acceptable .
however , this is a solution that we have essayée .
I not am not sure that we the essaierons to new .
what that he in be , of after this that I have said and this that His Hon. has proposed for avoid the problems attracted by this case to the Senate , I believe that this way of proceed will .
the hon. ë A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I draw your attention on the section EH of the Rules , who said this :
the chairman of the Committee must sign or parafer a copy printed of the bill of bill where the amendments are clear enrolled ...
I know that this is the practice followed , but I not so not to find the section of the Rules who said that a bill of bill which report is fact without proposals of amendment must also be signed .
what that he in be , yesterday , the bill of bill is came not signed on the office of the Clerk .
we have asked of the questions and he has was referred to the Senator Payette - Hervieux , who the has signed .
I me ask if the rule stated to the section EH of the Rules , who said that the chairman of the Committee must sign the bill of bill , the applies also to a bill of bill reported without proposals of amendment .
the Hon. the Speaker :
for answer to the hon. Senator Kinsella , I know the he there a clause of the Rules who the specific .
of after this that I know , and this is the use , the chairman of the Committee sign the bill of bill when he is tabled on the Board .
I not see not the bills of bill when they are made .
I am course that the Clerk added the they are signés .
the they not the are not , I am course that the Clerk contacte the chairman of the Committee .
the Senator Kinsella :
the chairman of the Committee was absent .
this is therefore a other member of the Committee who the has signed .
the Senator Kolber :
honourable senators , I me will a happy of the sign .
the Senator Hays :
the Senator Kinsella has fact out this who is without doubt a vice .
the suggestion of the Senator Kolber me believe good .
the Senator Kinsella :
I is only to protect the rights of the minority in this place .
the most of the chairmen of Committee are of the senators owned to the party government .
few - each are derogate of our side , all as the are of , the vice - chairmen .
in the absence of the chairman , this is the vice - chairman who should act to his place .
the Senator Kolber :
the section EH with a bill of bill who has was amended .
the Senator Lynch - Lynch :
we want fair that the senators of the party government respect the minority .
the Hon. the Speaker :
he would without doubt useful that the Clerk specific the something and does a message to all the table of committees to of concerning any confusion .
I like now to the question raised by the hon. Senator Lynch - Lynch , who has said that he would favourite that be called the third Reading of the bill of bill .
if we had fact that , we would gone to the with of the decision of the Senate , that which the bill of bill was be referred to two committees .
when a bill of bill is adopted without proposals of amendment , he not there has not of discussion .
be must from directly to the step of the third Reading .
which case , we not have not could refer the bill of bill which he question to the other Committee , as the Senate in had decided .
this is that the difficulty before which we we dealing .
honourable senators , pursuant to the order of the Senate , as he is 15 p.m. 30 , I leaving the Chair .
( the Senate the adjourned to 14 p.m. tomorrow . )
debates of the Senate ( Hansard )
wondering Session , Session st ,
volume 6,401 , Issue 19
the Thursday 9 December 99
the hon. Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker
table of the Contents
' ' '
the Ontario
the Act on the restructuring regional - Position proposal of to Ottawa officially bilingual - - refusal of the Prime Minister summer
the Fisheries and the Oceans
the viability of the fishing to the salmon on the Coast west - Position need of a assistance of emergency - Position extend of the hunger of Dan Edwards
doctors of the world
the Day international of the rights of the man
the Fisheries and Oceans
closure of the Fisheries of salmon Red of the River Fraser - Program of would of the costs of for - Grève of the hunger of Dan Edwards
the Ontario
the Act on the restructuring regional - LE refusal of the government summer of designate Ottawa as city bilingual - Position Position of the Federation of the communities francophones and accadienne
the bill regarding the restructuring regional - - refusal of to officially Ottawa city bilingual
the bill of implementation in implement of the agreed on the Station spatiale international civil
visitors of in
Affairs routine
the business of the Senate
Tabled of the guide to the intention of the senators on the condition of the people disabilities
the Quebec
the advice school linguistic - Modification of the section 93 of the Constitution - Report of the Prime report of the Committee Joint Special
the ascertain tabled pursuant to the Act on the transport to the Canada Motion some carriers air Smokers to negotiate and to conclude any agreement Earl - Presented of the second report of the Committee
the Act of implementation in implement of the Agreement on the Station spatiale international civil
report of the Committee
bill of bill of 99 on the implementation in implement of conventions tax
report of the Committee of the Affairs foreign
Economy Economy , Budgets and Administration
Presented of the second report of the Committee
review of the regulatory
Presented of the Prime report of the Committee Joint Standing
Access and right of visit of the children
Tabled of the Prime report of the Committee Joint Special
Affairs foreign
notice of motion to to Authorize the Committee to until the date of Presented of the report final of the study Current to the amendment of the mandate of the Organization of the Treaty of the Atlantic North
the Ontario
the Act on the restructuring regional - - refusal of the government summer of adopt the recommendation to to to of Ottawa a city bilingual - Notice of inquiry
the Senate
notice of motion confirmant the procedure of Assent Royal
PERIOD PERIOD question
the transport
the Divestiture of wharves public - Position divestiture of the pier of the Island Thetis to the a Indian of the Island Kuper
the Defence national
the problems mécaniques of the armada of aliens
the Alternative of the fleet of helicopters Sea King - - time of the announcement
the Affairs Social , the Science and the Technology
the bill of bill on the protection of the information personal and of the documents electronic - - Opposition of the government albertain
the environment
the announcement by the Alberta of the intention of Authorize the treatment of PCB dangerous Policy to the centre of treatment of Swan Hills - Position Position of the government
the agriculture and the agroalimentaire
the crisis in the céréaliculteurs of the Western - Réponse of the government
answers delayed to of the questions Oral
the Justice
the cost of the program of registration of the weapons to gun - Position responsibility of the Minister
the Defence national
the Alternative of the granny of helicopters Sea King - Position ask of copy of the statement of the needs
visitor of in
order DAY THE
bill of bill on the protection of the information personal and the documents electronic
third Reading
speech of the Throne
motion of Adopted of the Adresse in response - Continued of the debate
bill of bill admissibility the taken of some decisions Medical
second Reading - Continued of the debate
Library of the Parliament
Adopted of the Prime report of the Committee Joint Standing
languages official
Adopted of the Prime report of the Committee Joint Standing
review of the policy Canadian antidrogues
motion Motion the training of a Committee Senate Special - Continued of the debate
bill of bill on the protection of the information personal and the documents electronic
motion Requesting to the Committee of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology of scinder the bill of bill in two - Withdrawn of the section
the freedom religious in China in report with the pactes international of the Nations Nations
inquiry - Continued of the debate
the Estimates of the Estimates of 99 - 2000
notice of motion to Authorized to the Committee of the Finance national of study the Budgets of the Estimates - Motion of amendment - Stands of the debate
the Summit of the Francophonie
inquiry - Adjourned of the debate - Maintien of the section
the rights of the human and the conflict multiethniques
inquiry - adjournment of the debate
Library of the Parliament
withdrawal of the motion to Authorized to the Committee Joint Standing of sit for the sittings of the Senate
Affairs Social , Science and Technology
motion to Authorized to the Committee of study the of of the system of health - Adjourned of the debate
adjournment
the SENATE
the Thursday 9 December 99
the Senate is met to 14 p.m. , the Speaker the to the Chair .
prayers .
the Ontario
the Act on the restructuring regional - Position proposal of to Ottawa officially bilingual - - refusal of the Prime Minister summer
the hon. Jean - Robert Gauthier :
honourable senators , I not am not surprised of the decision of the government summer Mr. Harris of refuse the recommendation of the expert - board in s of restructuring municipale or regional .
this is the behaviour as of ' Harris and company when he the is of the rights of the francophones .
he there has more of 40 years that I me ' of this question , as to the level school , of the health , of the services social and now , to the level City .
I have always was this and I have the intention of continue to to my work .
let - I you say that the question is far of be resolved .
yesterday , Mr. Harris " , that the media , that he had many fact for the Canadians French of the Ontario .
he not said not that to each time , each of the gains obtained in the areas of the education , of the health and of the Affairs municipal him have was mobile by the courts or by the opinion public .
, and occasions , he has quêté of the funds to the government federal for fund these changes .
honourable senators , we pave all the measures to our clause for to in so that the government summer Mr. Harris change of opinion , of Position and studs bilingual the new city of Ottawa , the capital of the country .
be positive , honourable senators , let the new Administration municipale decide of the elements of the bilingualism of this Administration .
honourable senators , we pave of the measures incitatives .
we him recommanderons of correct the affront to the equity and to the justice , to of respect the equality of the two languages official in the capital of the country .
Mr. . Harris plays a at dangerous in rebuke the Canadians French and give and to some people a condition gagnante .
enough the folies !
Mr. Harris , we not are not impressionnés !
the Fisheries and the Oceans
the viability of the fishing to the salmon on the Coast west - Position need of a assistance of emergency - Position extend of the hunger of Dan Edwards
the hon. Pat Carney :
honourable senators , this week , a man who risk his life for help the people of the communities coastal of the British - British was in my office for ask the assistance of the government federal and of the Senate .
Dan Edwards , a pêcheur of the Island of Vancouver , on the Coast west , in is to his forty - fifth day of extend of the hunger for draw the attention on our communities coastal who are devastated economically and socially by the collapse this year of the montaisons of salmon Red of the River Fraser .
Mr. . Edwards has met the senators by Perrault etGerry Comeau and I - even for describe the frustration .
all this that Dan written for to a term to his extend of the hunger , this is that the government federal negotiating with the government provincial and the stakeholders for find a way of come in assistance to the people of the communities who in have a need if despair .
until to now , the appropriation federal are for to get the people to leave the sector of the fishing and not to help the fishermen who are of the difficulties to the in out .
honourable senators , he not there will not of fishing viable on the Coast west if all the fishermen to the skills and the experience necessary are forced of leave the sector of the fishing to the on of the program of buy .
he must of the fishermen for have a fishing viable .
the Auditor General is of agreed with Dan .
in the report the more recent , he has fact referring regularly to the need of support a fishing viable .
he has said :
the challenge that must met the managers of the Department of the Fisheries and of the Oceans is to as the stocks current and to restore those who are low , all in now the viability of the fisheries .
he will that the Department adapte the regime of management to of new realities and be the whatsoever and the support of the stakeholders the he to succeed .
he has also has the need of :
... solve the problems from to the consultation to of improve the reports with the stakeholders and of create any of the partnerships for share the responsibilities 2.4 to the management and cover the costs .
this is this that Dan Edwards ask .
until to now , the government federal not has of answer to the requests of assistance of the communities that the program of 400 million of $ announced the year last for to opposite to the crisis with the salmon coho will also of solve the problem of the salmon Red this year .
seen that the regime of insurance - employment not assistance not the fishermen who not have not could continuation , force is to the fishermen aboriginal and not aboriginal of the in back to the assistance social .
such is the situation in the communities where , this year , of the fishermen have invested , in some case , of the tens of thousands of $ in stupid of fishing and in costs of starts , and that , for a fishing who not has not had place .
Dan represents a coalition baptisée Fraser River Sockeye Crisis Standing .
it so the communities coastal who crient refer fault of assistance .
Dan has lost 50 books since the beginning of the extend of the hunger .
he is physiquement immortalized , but not has nothing lost of his determination .
the Senator by Perrault and I - even have exhorté Dan to not not to his days in danger , but he is resolved to not not eat before that someone a the interest to the case .
well course , the government federal can negotiate with the province and the various stakeholders to of develop a plan to to provide a assistance of emergency to the people who live these communities of the British - British .
the collapse of the sector of the salmon sockeye in the River Fraser is a disaster natural .
he there of the ' to use in case of disaster natural to of help those who are - affected .
they have was with in implement in Ontario and to the Quebec after the storm of ice .
be has fact of even to the New - Brunswick in 1998 when the fish have was victims of a virus .
I am that , the he so someone something to Dan Edwards , the situation régnant in the communities , who is already by , not must volatile .
he we must to that we have the will policy necessary for solve this problem who an of the communities as aboriginal that not aboriginal , before that a tragedy human not the " on the Coast .
doctors of the world
the hon. Marisa Barth Ferretti :
honourable senators , I draw your attention on a initiative lancée by the organization Médecins of the third , who is to to of the care medical to the young itinérants of Montreal .
of after the stakeholders who working with of the young itinérants , be dénombrerait in this time de2 . to 5 . young without - from to Montreal .
these young are désorganisés .
often , they not have not of as of insurance - illness .
by experience , they know that they not will not well received when they the présenteront to the emergency .
they are therefore in bad health .
doctors of the third has ' on at to the months of January a team volante of doctors who does reach directly the young where they the find , this is - to - say in the street .
I to conclude with these words of the Dr. Réjean Thomas , responsible of this magnificent bill , who " to a journalist that the body wanted the deal to the problems that are the poor of a country rich .
is a initiative who should help to inevitable these young who live in the street and in the misery .
I you urge all , honourable senators , to you awareness to the problem of the young itinérants of our society .
, Montreal , to our centre community for people seniors , all close of CBC - Canada , on the boulevard René - Lévesque , we will most , the 26 December , the Prime of a series of days to the over which we offrirons the asile and the meals , without discrimination of age , to all the itinérants of the city of Montreal .
this initiative will well , and be can to of the meals any the end of week .
of the people there will for secourir these people the samedis and dimanches , because he not there has nothing for these people left to they - same .
we have thought that in beginning the 26 December , we able the help each end of week also long that he we will possible of the to .
the Day international of the rights of the man
the hon. A . Raynell Andreychuk :
honourable senators , the 10 December in the Day international of the rights of the man .
in this end of millennium , the Canada and the world around can be proud of the instruments , pactes and other mechanisms élaborés by the Nations Nations and of other organizations for awareness the public to the fact that all the people human naissent equal in dignity and in rights .
however , he is regrettable of see still as of atrocities and of see that the people the more vulnerable of our society are still , - , the more many to losing their life , their dignity and their security .
the Declaration Universal of the rights of the man not is not enough respected for give place to the réjouissances .
he is important that all the Canadians méditent on our contribution to the promotion of the respect of the rights of the human and on the place priority that must with this question in our for and in , of the state .
the parliamentarians have the responsibility of the ensure that the words and the actions of the Canada , to the échelon national and to the échelon international , are well consistent with the statements , pactes and other instruments which the Canada is signatory .
we not must not we " of to minutieusement the case of violation of the rights of the human and we not must not let the factors economic or political the just on the respect of the rights human basic who held as to heart to our society .
in as that parliamentarians , we we must of ensure to this that our respect of the rights human not be not sélectif or aléatoire , and to this that we not soulevions not this question only expediency by of the groups of interests or the media .
the respect of the rights human must be constantly to the basic of all our actions .
we must therefore we strive of adopt of the practices and of the procedures to the support of the application Increase , continues and impartiale of the rights of the human .
I urge of new the leaders of the Senate to to immediately on at a Committee of the rights of the human , as I the have of , proposed in the framework of a motion to the over of the last session .
a such Committee we would of to many for the million of people who have lost the life or of other freedoms fundamental .
the Fisheries and Oceans
closure of the Fisheries of salmon Red of the River Fraser - Program of would of the costs of for - Grève of the hunger of Dan Edwards
the hon. Raymond J . Perrault :
honourable senators , I have release today today with the Minister of the Fisheries and I me am also talked Mr. Dan Edwards , gréviste of the hunger .
I have from some information which I like to on to the Senate .
" that given of the circumstances exceptional victimized to the over of the season of fishing to the salmon of 99 , Fisheries and Oceans Canada remboursera the costs of for to the fishermen commercial who have - of serious impact financial to the on of the closings orchestrated in the Fisheries of salmon Red of the River Fraser to the over of the was " , has should the Minister Dhaliwal .
" I have asked to the officials of my Department of to all this that they could for attempt of render the cheques of would of here ë . "
" about two million of $ will paid directly to about 1 higher choose of for or owners of at " , has soulignéM. Dhaliwal .
honourable senators , I have also in with of other data , but he would too long of in to on to the Senate to the hour current .
the government at of the measures in view of met this challenge .
Mr. . Edwards is very encouraged of know that the Minister could well enter in touch with him this after - afternoon .
the Ontario
the Act on the restructuring regional - LE refusal of the government summer of designate Ottawa as city bilingual - Position Position of the Federation of the communities francophones and accadienne
the hon. Gerald J . Comeau :
honourable senators , I like you read a letter material to the honorableTony ; , Minister of the Affairs municipal and of the elected of the Ontario .
I quote :
Mr. the Minister ,
I hear by the through of the media , that your government had chosen of not not to the status bilingual to the new city of Ottawa who regroupera11 municipalities existing .
the Federation of the communities francophones and é of the Canada you has wrote , the 7 December last , and it synthétise very well the arguments benefiting the bilingualism to Ottawa .
by therefore , he is needless of the repeat .
I sharing the principles and the feelings views by the Federation .
in as that Parliamentary French , he is very important for I of work in a city who respect and we my language mother .
he is also very essential that I can me feel in I in the capital national .
I hope that the question of the unilinguisme to Ottawa become all simply a misunderstanding of the on of the journalists .
I you please of would me enlighten on this question .
honourable senators , I you urge to support the principle expressed by the Federation of the communities francophones and é of the Canada and that the concept of the respect to Ottawa of the two languages official .
the bill regarding the restructuring regional - - refusal of to officially Ottawa city bilingual
the hon. Colin Kenny :
honourable senators , I will today today of the situation linguistic of the region of Ottawa .
in quality of resident of Ottawa , of Senator of the Ontario and of English , I me must of speak to the about of the question of the language in the new city of Ottawa from of the merger , who will the day the 1 January 2001 .
, the hour current , Ottawa is a city officially bilingual .
our country that two languages official , and he is all to fact natural that his capital be bilingual , not only because that of the francophones live in the region , but also because that the region should be the mirrors of the nature of the country in the together .
of the Senators :
hear !
the Senator Kenny :
the bilingualism not is in nothing a reviews in the region of Ottawa .
he fact part of the history and should be guaranteed in the future of the region .
be said in from , the new city from of the merger and the city of Hull accueilleront conjunction the Games of the Francophonie in the year 2001 .
of fact , the region of Ottawa - Hull screening of recording between the provinces , he not is that natural that the status bilingual of the city of Ottawa be recognized to the level provincial .
in the report , Mr. Glen Shortliffe said that the region of Ottawa is a imperfect particular and recommends that the new city of Ottawa be " plants city bilingual by the bill and offer of the services in the two languages official when the situation the only " .
the province has - the majority of the advice Mr. Shortliffe , but it has chosen of not not to that of this proposal .
the citizens of Ottawa and of the Canada want and should obtain the insurance that Ottawa will officially bilingual when will place the merger .
in quality of Prime Minister , Mr. Harris must recognize the importance of to of Ottawa a city bilingual .
he must to evidence of leadership in this matter , to of Ottawa a city bilingual and eliminate all part of uncertainty .
the bill of implementation in Bill of the agreed on the Station spatiale international civil
the reasons of the forbearance for the study section by section
the hon. Jerahmiel S . Grafstein :
honourable senators , the Committee of the Affairs foreign will more later today today a report regarding the bill of bill C - 4 , Act of implementation in implement of the Agreement on the Station spatiale international civil .
my reasons listed in the that record of the comitédu 7 December , to the page 10 .
of the Senators :
the Senator Grafstein :
the he you pleasure , that the honourable senators me are complete and they will then rise of the objections .
the hon. John Lynch - Lynch ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , this is the period of the statements ; this not is not the time of give of the explanation on of the reports .
the Senator Grafstein :
honourable senators , since be not me give not the opportunity of take the speak of the step of the report , I have thought that I could use the period of the statements of senators for give the reasons of my forbearance .
visitors of in
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I you attention the presence to our gallery of few visitors of in .
they are useful by the hon. Senator Wilson .
we their wish the welcome to the Senate of the Canada .
he there has also a delegation of 10 experts russes who are the government federal and some governments regional of the Russia ; this are of the law in various areas of the Affairs related to the appropriation mortgage .
they come of complete a period of training of three weeks here , in our system Canadian of credit hypothécaire .
we their wish the welcome to the Senate of the Canada .
Affairs routine
the business of the Senate
Tabled of the guide to the intention of the senators on the condition of the people disabilities
the hon. M. Robertson :
honourable senators , I like to a small feuillet entitled : " Guide to the intention of the senators on the condition of the people handicappés " , and I ask to the Clerk of the distribute to the s of the senators .
... French ...
the Quebec
the advice school linguistic - Modification of the section 93 of the Constitution - Report of the Prime report of the Committee Joint Special
the hon. Lucie pin :
honourable senators , pursuant to the section 104 of the Rules of the Senate , I have the honour of table the report of the Committee Joint Special on the section 93 of the Act constitutional of 1867 , regarding the system school of the Quebec , relatif to the Estimates incurred by the Committee to the over of the first session of the 30 - sixth Parliament .
the ascertain tabled pursuant to the Act on the transport to the Canada Motion some carriers air Smokers to negotiate and to conclude any agreement Earl - Presented of the second report of the Committee
the hon. Lise Bacon , chairman of the Committee Senate Standing of the transport and of Communications , its the report following :
the Thursday 9 December 99
the Committee Senate Standing of the transport and of the Communications has the honour of to the
second REPORT
your Committee , who has was authorized by the Senate the 14 October 99 to to , for in to report , pursuant to the paragraph 47 ( 5 ) of the Act on the transport to the Canada , the ascertain tabled before this House the 14 September 99 , Motion some carriers air Smokers and some people to negotiate and to conclude any agreement Earl , its now the report final , who is annexé to the this report .
respectfully submitted ,
the chairman ,
would BACON
( the text of the report is in as to the Journals of the Senate of today huip. 258 . )
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when consideration - we this report ?
the Senator Bacon :
honourable senators , pursuant to the section 97 ( 3 ) of the Rules , I move that the report be recorded to the order of the day for study to the next Senate of the Senate .
( on the motion of the Senator Bacon , the study of the report is placed to the order of the day of the next Senate . )
the Act of implementation in implement of the Agreement on the Station spatiale international civil
report of the Committee
the hon. Peter A . Stollery , chairman of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign , its the report following :
the Thursday 9 December 99
the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign has the honour of to the
fifth REPORT
your Committee , which has was obedience the an of bill C - 4 , Act to implementation in implement of the Agreement an between the government of the Canada , the governments of States members of the Agency spatiale European , the government of the Japan , the government of the Federation of Russia and the government of the States - United of America on the cooperation Current to the Station spatiale international civil and Dolly of the changes other to of other laws , has , pursuant to the order of referred of the Wednesday 1 December 99 , examined obedience bill of bill and in fact now report without amendment .
respectfully submitted ,
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when read - we this bill of bill a third time ?
( on the motion of the Senator Stollery , the third Reading of the bill of bill is placed to the order of the day of the next Senate of the Senate . )
bill of bill of 99 on the implementation in Bill of conventions tax
report of the Committee of the Affairs foreign
the hon. Peter A . Stollery , chairman of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign , its the report following :
the Thursday 9 December 99
the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign has the honour of to the
SIXIÈME REPORT
your Committee , which has was obedience the an of bill S - 3 , Act an in implement a agreed , of the conventions and of the protocoles conclude between the Canada and the Kirghizistan , the Lebanon , the Algeria , the Bulgaria , the Portugal , the Ouzbékistan , the Syria , the Japan and the Luxembourg , in view of avoid the duplicates Socialist and of prevent the evasion tax in s of taxes on the income , has , pursuant to the order of referred of the Wednesday 24 November 99 , examined obedience bill of bill and in fact now report without amendment .
respectfully submitted ,
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when read - we this bill of bill a third time ?
( on the motion of the Senator Stollery , the third Reading of the bill of bill is placed to the order of the day of the next Senate of the Senate . )
Economy Economy , Budgets and Administration
Presented of the second report of the Committee
the hon. Bill Rompkey , chairman of the Committee Standing of the Economy Economy , of the Budgets and of the Administration its the report following :
the Thursday 9 December 99
the Committee Standing of the Economy Economy , of the Budgets and of the Administration has the honour of table the
second REPORT
your Committee are now to a study of the situation budget of the committees of the Senate .
your Committee recommends therefore that , notwithstanding the Guidelines for the funding of the committees of the Senate , for all budget of Committee relatif to the year financial 99 - 2000 , presented to the Committee of the Economy Economy and approved by , - this , your Committee not be authorized to been of here the 10 February 2000 that 6 / 12 of the funds accorded .
the two reservations to this recommendation are : i ) the budget submitted by the Comités of the transport and Communications regarding their study of the ascertain pursuant to the paragraph 47 ( 5 ) of the Act on the transport to the Canada , to the amount of 19 900 $ ; and ii ) the budget submitted by the Committee of the Peoples aboriginal regarding their study on the self government aboriginal , to the amount of 14 750 $ .
respectfully submitted ,
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when this report will he took in consideration ?
( on the motion of the Senator Rompkey , the report is recorded to the order of the day of the next Senate of the Senate . )
review of the regulatory
Presented of the Prime report of the Committee Joint Standing
the hon. é Payette - Hervieux :
honourable senators , I have the honour of to the Prime report of the Committee Joint Standing of review of the regulatory to on the order of referred Standing ( quorum ) and the Estimates prior to the over of the first session of the 30 - sixth Parliament .
( the text of the report is to the Journals of the Senate of today today . )
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when consideration - we this report ?
( on the motion of the Senator Payette - Hervieux , the study of the report is placed to the order of the day of the next Senate . )
Access and right of visit of the children
Tabled of the Prime report of the Committee Joint Special
the hon. Landon Pearson :
honourable senators , pursuant to the section 104 of the Rules of the Senate , I have the honour of to the Prime report of the Committee Joint Special on the Access and the right of visit of the children , who with of the Estimates encourues for the first session of the 30 - sixth Parliament .
Affairs foreign
notice of motion to to Authorize the Committee to until the date of Presented of the report final of the study Current to the amendment of the mandate of the Organization of the Treaty of the Atlantic North
the hon. Peter A . Stollery :
honourable senators , I give notice that , Monday the 13 December 99 , I move :
that by derogation to the levels adopted by the Senate the Thursday 14 October 99 and the Wednesday 17 November 99 , the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign , authorized to to for in to report the ramifications for the Canada : 1 ) of the amendment made to the mandate of the Organization of the Treaty of the Atlantic North ( NATO ) and to the role of the Canada in the NATO since the disbanding of the NATO of Warsaw , of the end of the War Cold and of the into recent in the NATO of the expulsions , of the Poland and of the Republic tchèque ; and 2 ) of the - of the peace , particularly the ability of the Canada of there participate under the auspices of not any what body international which the Canada fact part , be authorized to to the report final to the more later the 10 March 2000 ;
that the Committee divested the powers necessary to the Electronic of the results of the study contained in the report final , and this until to the 31 March 2000 ;
that the Committee be authorized , notwithstanding the practices considered , to table the report with of the Clerk of the Senate , if the Senate not seat not , and that obedience report be being have was tabled to the Senate .
the Ontario
the Act on the restructuring regional - - refusal of the government summer of adopt the recommendation to to to of Ottawa a city bilingual - Notice of inquiry
the hon. Marie - P .
honourable senators , I give notice that , the Monday 13 December 99 , I call the attention of the Senate on the decision of the government of the Ontario of not not adopt a recommendation to to to of Ottawa a city bilingual after his restructuring proposed .
the Senate
notice of motion confirmant the procedure of Assent Royal
leave to was granted of to to the Notice of motion :
the hon. Anne C . Cools :
honourable senators , pursuant to the sections 56 ( 1 ) and 58 ( 1 ) i ) of the Rules , I give notice by the its that tomorrow , I move :
that the Senate of the Canada states the procedure of Assent Royal to the Senate , such that it is which by the authorities in procedure Parliamentary Norman Wilding and Philip Laundy : " Position ceremony pratiquée to the Canada is the who seems the apparenter the more to the distinct " .
that the Senate ' the right sovereign of Majesty Majesty , such that he is statement in the Act constitutional of 1867 , and who him authority the prerogative of deal the procedures parliamentarians and the bills of bill studied , ' to the Senators or adopted in the two Houses of the Parliament ;
that the Senate , in as that House where Majesty Majesty authority the Assent Royal , states the right constitutional ancestral as House of the Parliament where convergent the business of the three branches of the Parliament seize together in as that Parliament of the Canada ;
that the Senate states the right of the Parliament , the " lex parliamenti " , the bill ancestrale who has that the consent Alaska is required for the study by the Parliament of all bill of bill or any procedure Parliamentary who would the prerogative of Majesty Majesty ;
that the Senate states that the procedure Parliamentary to follow by a member for obtain the consent Alaska is of table to this effect a motion to is to Majesty Majesty , who the topic of the other forms of request of consent Alaska which have access the Prime Minister or the ministers in the year of their responsibilities business ;
that the Senate states the obligation of obtain the consent of Majesty Majesty before that be examined a bill of bill who affectera the prerogative Royal , to the example of the consent Alaska who has was of by the Queen Elizabeth II to the Royal Assent Bill of 1967 , who has was record to the House of the Lords of the Kingdom - U by the Grand Chancellor Gardiner to the step of the second Reading of the bill of bill , the 2 March 1967 :
" your Seigneuries , I am responsible by Majesty Majesty the Queen of inform the House that Majesty Majesty , to was it of the subject of the bill of bill , agreed to to his prerogative and the interest , in the legislation where they are will by the bill of bill , to the clause of the Parliament to the for of the bill of bill . "
and who has was by few weeks more later , the 17 April 1967 , to the House of the Commons of the Kingdom - U by the prosecutor General shore Elwyn Jones :
" I am responsible by the Queen of inform the House that Majesty Majesty , to was it of the subject of the bill of bill , agreed to to his prerogative and the interest , in the legislation where they are will by the bill of bill , to the clause of the Parliament to the for of the bill of bill .
I have the honour of propose that the bill of bill be now read a second time . "
PERIOD PERIOD question
the transport
the Divestiture of wharves public - Position divestiture of the pier of the Island Thetis to the a Indian of the Island Kuper
the hon. Pat Carney :
honourable senators , my question the is to the Leader of the government to the Senate , to who I have of notice .
the 18 October , I have wrote to the Minister of the Transport for me rise against the decision of the Department of independently a pier public of the Island Thetis , on the Coast of the British - British , to the collective aboriginal next of the Island Kuper , who has the own pier .
this decision has been a subject concern in the Island of Thetis , since the pier is their only way of access by sea .
the policy of the Department of the Transport is to aliéner the wharves public to the communities in which they the find .
be me has confirmed that this policy is always in effect .
the Leader of the government of the Senate could - he me help to know if the government federal will independently of the wharves public of a Island to a a aboriginal of a other Island , before that any claims territorial aboriginal not be resolved in this region ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I thank her the Senator of me have of notice of this question today today .
I hoping also that it me would in this who with the prononciation of the behalf of the a Indian .
the Senator Carney :
so , honourable senators .
he " as Pénélope .
he the is of Penelakut .
the Senator Boudreau :
I thank still a time the Senator .
of after the information that I have glanés , the a has our in May of the interest to the thing which about the Senator and of the discussions have was amorcées between the a and the Department of the Transport .
by the on , of the résidants have said that they the opposed to this approach , in this sense that they want to all the least express their point of view .
I believe know that , to the on of these interventions , a meeting is now scheduled between the a and the résidants of the Island and , by seaway of make , the negotiations with the a of Penelakut not are not period .
hope that these discussions between the résidants and the a will of solve the question .
the Senator Carney :
honourable senators , the Leader of the government to the Senate could - he me help to obtain a response to my letter of the 18 October to the Minister ?
if the Department of the Transport has amended the policy - a amendment that he not has never announced - , it isolera of small communities and paralysera the activity economic , because each Island not has that a pier .
if the Department recognize the control of the pier of a Island to a other Island , the activity economic of the first Island the in is paralysée .
he me would useful that the Leader of the government ask to the Minister of the Transport of answer to my letter of the 18 October .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I not see not of generates to bring with the Minister for ask that the be will to the letter of the hon. Senator .
the Defence national
the problems mécaniques of the armada of aliens
the hon. J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , I like for a question to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
four armada Canadian of aliens have - of the pannes of générateur .
he there has about four or five years , we have had a avalanche of problems similar and have spent of the are great for in discover the because and do the upkeep necessary .
that for the government for the four armada who are today today outside service ?
while that I have the speak , have - we of the provide that which of other armada would of have the same problems and , the case if , where the is the port of efficiently of these armada , on the Coast is , on the Coast west , or the two ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I have of the information regarding only the four armada of aliens which the Senator has spoke .
the problems mécaniques of these armada are limited to the générateurs 2004 and not not to the citizenry of propulsion .
however , a inquiry technical - is in over .
of the provisions to short and to long term are now with in implement .
he is to hope that the pannes of this such not the reproduiront more , because the equipment and the armada working well .
the Senator Forrestall :
honourable senators , I have my doubts that - with .
we have was the target of many criticism of the on of our allies to the abroad to about of the ability of the armada who not can sail to full memories in reason even of this problem .
we know also that these armada working very well , except that he their lack a something who represents 40 per of their ability , to know a helicopter capable Motor and reliable .
, the seen of these two great problems , he is difficult of say , in bearing the seriously , that the armada working well .
the Alternative of the fleet of helicopters Sea King - - time of the announcement
the hon. J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , the Minister can - he we say if , before our return in February , he there will a announcement on the acquisition of helicopters preclude ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I not can to today today no statement on the time where the acquisition of these aircraft will announced .
he the is of a priority of all Prime rank for the Minister of the Defence national , and that for of many senators and members .
we hope all that this announcement can the to in a it future .
the Senator Forrestall :
we are the it future since now 1 792 days , and we not have not last of expect .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , if the hon. Senator Forrestall to take the speak , we will the listen .
the Senator Forrestall :
the séanteur Boudreau :
the Senator Graham :
hear !
the Senator Boudreau :
for answer to the question , the forces Armed have initiated , to the over of the period which he about , a sure number of new programs important .
in pending the new helicopters preclude , we have fact of the progress in this who with of other programs , there including the helicopters of research and of search , the under - submarines and the improvement of the Allowance of living and of the conditions of life of the military them - same .
I understand the forward of the Senator to the regard of the program of acquisition of the helicopters preclude , but I have good hope that his efforts diligents will circumstance in a very it future .
the Affairs Social , the Science and the Technology
the bill of bill on the protection of the information personal and of the documents electronic - - Opposition of the government albertain
the hon. Douglas Roche :
honourable senators , my question the is to the chairman of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology .
by on of the Exchange who has had place here , yesterday , to about of the letter that the government albertain has material , the 7 December , to the chairman of the Committee , the government albertain me has informed today today that he not had not was guest to appear before the Committee to the about of the bill of bill C - 6 .
in any justice for the chairman of the Committee , I must say that I believe that the government albertain not has not asked to appear , but has only sent a letter .
he the is probably more here of a lack of communication that of bad will .
however , the concerns albertaines regarding the with in of the areas of jurisdiction provincial have .
when the chairman of the Committee will the speak , today today , to the Senate , on the bill of bill C - 6 , will he to the concerns that the government albertain s in his letter ?
the hon. Michael Kirby :
honourable senators , I contend to the question of the Senator Roche in what two comments .
all of first , as I the have explained yesterday , I thought that the government of the Alberta had was guest to appear before the Committee , even if I have well took be of say - and I just of read the Hansard - that I would whether that with of the clerk of the Committee .
in fact , the government of the Alberta , contrary to , of the Ontario , not has not asked to appear before the Committee .
he we has submitted a memory - and we in have received a other he there has two days - but he not has not asked to appear .
the Committee has can - be fact a mistake in not invitant not the representatives of the province to appear , but they have certainly was the welcome as witnesses the they had asked to appear .
of , , all the committees which I have chaired the business have always should a good reaction to the representatives of the governments provincial .
the other problem , this is , who is of order constitutional .
I not the speak not in my comments today today .
I will maintain this that I have said yesterday , this is - to - say that the members of the Committee have heard the evidence of experts who the have convinced that the bill of bill is consistent to the Constitution .
we not have therefore not issue the question in our report , because that we believe that the bill of bill is consistent to the Constitution and that the evidence made to the Committee abound strongly in the even sense .
the environment
the announcement by the Alberta of the intention of Authorize the treatment of PCB dangerous Policy to the centre of treatment of Swan Hills - Position Position of the government
the hon. Mira Spivak :
honourable senators , the government of the Alberta has announced a amendment of his policy who has of the impact on the centre of treatment of Swan Hills .
this amendment allows to the centre of treatment of Swan Hills of import and of deal of the PCB bruts , there including of the wastes and of other contaminants , that , without that a assessment environmental be necessary .
honourable senators , the business who manages the centre of treatment of the PCB not has not a matter without tache .
it has already was to the origin of fuites and of explosions and it has was appropriately found of pollution .
it not has not out of important rejets of dioxine and of furane who the are products he there has several years - rejets who have caused of the problems of health to the people alive in support and who have tainted the poissons and the wildlife .
the business has was condamnée to a fined of 625 . $ for this offence .
the States - United have banned the importation of PCB products to the abroad .
course , this change of policy of the government of the Alberta has of the impact who not the limit not to the Alberta since the PCB in question can be via in Alberta by of other provinces , of other ports or there be come in truck , this who highlights in because the security and the health of the Canadians who live the long of these Ways of routing .
after this announcement , the government of the Canada bad - he the need of amend his Position on the importation of PCB , of way general ?
the Leader of the government can - he ask to the Minister of the Environment if it has asked the held of a assessment environmental federal ?
it can the to because that not with not only the province of the Alberta .
course , the province it - even not for not of to a such assessment .
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , the decision Current to the treatment of PCB dangerous to the facilities of Swan Hills is now to the study by the government of the Alberta .
the decision Current to the importation of Contents dangerous to the Canada must certainly be consistent to the standards Canadian in s of export and of importation of PCB dangerous , but it is when even of the resort of the province of the Alberta .
in fact , of other provinces and territories importent now of the PCB of other country .
I know what is , specifically , the Position of the Minister of the Environment to the regard of the assessment environmental which about the Senator Spivak .
I bring therefore his question to the Minister , who there will the week next .
the Senator Spivak :
honourable senators , the Leader of the government to the Senate has said that the importation of PCB dangerous is of the resort of the provinces and that the transportation of PCB dangerous the is also .
I not am not some of have well including the response of the Leader .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , the regulatory of the export and of the importation of the PCB dangerous are a field of responsibility and of jurisdiction federal .
these provisions will colleague in case of importation .
the amendment of the licensing of and of the facilities in because for that they can deal of the PCB from of a other country is of the resort of the province , to my knowledge .
the Senator Spivak :
honourable senators , the transportation interprovincial is subject to the regulatory of the export and of the importation .
this is the transportation interprovincial of PCB who me interest .
the Leader states he that this not is not a responsibility provincial , but a responsibility federal ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , for power import or flair pareils PCB , the facilities in because must the with to the requirements for by the regulatory federal on the PCB dangerous .
this regulatory includes of the provisions provisions to the health and to the security for the treatment of these PCB .
the treatment to the within of the has it - even is authorized by the for of and that him has Exclusive the province .
a sure number of provinces have , on their territory , of the facilities who importent of the PCB dangerous .
the Senator Spivak :
honourable senators , the government of the Canada not lead - he not that we not devenions the Tabled of PCB dangerous of the world around ?
he the is of products chemical who are of the dioxines and of the furanes .
as in witnessing the laws that we have adopted recently , we seek to - these marine and not to the import .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , he not fact not of doubt that the government of the Canada the inquiéterait of a scenario where we deviendrions the Tabled of PCB dangerous of the world around .
the opinion of the Minister to this time - this is that the regulatory existante we will of with this situation of way get .
the agriculture and the agroalimentaire
the crisis in the céréaliculteurs of the Western - Réponse of the government
the hon. Leonard J . Gustafson :
honourable senators , my question the is to the Leader of the government to the Senate and relates on the crisis that live the farmers .
the negotiations of the Organization World of the trade to Miami not have not of of the results positive .
the Minister of the Agriculture , Lyle Vanclief , has little of hope that the céréaliculteurs Canadian see soon a reduction of the grants international .
I in am come to the even conclusion after me be talked with of the representatives of the Europe , of the States - United and of other country .
the Committee Standing of the House of the Commons has given of the hearings in the Western .
I have attended to the hearings held to Estevan and to Regina .
in fact , the Minister of the Agriculture of the Saskatchewan me has asked of the help to to a statement to the Committee .
the farmers , who are in a situation very precarious , are , of way very émotive , the he there has someone a who the " .
I know that the Committee of the House of the Commons " , and very carefully .
I was proud of the members members of this Committee because that they have listened and seem have including .
the Leader believes - he , in as that member of the cabinet , that the cabinet " the farmers and relates a those careful to their calls to the assistance then that they are in full crisis ?
be has announced in all the Canada Mr. Milne , a member of the House of the Commons , would organizing a event for help the farmers , to Toronto .
he is impossible that the people not understand not the crisis in the sector agricultural .
the cabinet is - he to the " ?
the Minister is - he prepared to would the message from of this s - this ?
of the speech on this about have was given by of the senators on of the side and they have was all also vigorous that those of this side - this .
is - this that someone a " ?
the Senator Ghitter :
not , they not begrudging not .
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I have already fact on to the Minister of the Agriculture of the concerns expressed in the framework of our debate here , who was initiated by the hon. Senator Gustafson .
be will seriously to that of the work of the Committee of the House of the Commons .
as the hon. Senator the has said , the members of the Committee not have not physically their efforts and all report we of their work will took , this is obvious , very to the seriously by the Minister and by his colleagues of the cabinet .
be can hope that this report will presented in a deadline reasonable .
the Senator Gustafson :
honourable senators , I have in with a release of press before that the program of fight against the crisis agricultural is a failure full and that the Ontario and the Saskatchewan the in seek .
we not are that to few days of the next millennium , of the next generation , of the next century .
we go speak of the crisis and we in discussing since a year and half .
yet , be not has still presented no legislation who works .
I not speak never out enough the serious of the situation .
he is important that the Prime Minister , the Minister of the Agriculture and the cabinet begrudging .
I can say without fear of me wrong that the Senate has listened .
I believe that the Committee Senate Standing of the agriculture and of the Forestry has certainly answered of a way constructive .
he the is now of know if the government will answer .
this is this who any the more .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , the hon. Senator fact referring to two provinces who have said be insatisfaites of the programs current of protection of the income agricultural , but for of the reasons well different .
the government summer was that the program not was not enough generous for his farmers and be can in déduire that he jugeait that a too great part of the appropriation had was will , .
the ministers federal and provincial of the Agriculture come all fair of to a meeting to Toronto .
this question was to the order of the day and , to my notice , this is of that that come some of the statements .
the Minister has agreed that the process should the continue and not not take end in even time that the conference .
that I , the Committee of the agriculture of the Commons could help of way positive and substantial to the discussion that place the government federal and the provinces .
answers delayed to of the questions Oral
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I have of the answers to the questions raised to the Senate the 24 November 99 by the senators Tkachuk and Stratton regarding the cost of the program of registration of the weapons to gun and to a question raised to the Senate the 25 November 99 by the Senator Forrestall to the about of the Alternative of the granny of helicopters Sea King and of his ask of a copy of the statement of the needs .
the Justice
the cost of the program of registration of the weapons to gun - Position responsibility of the Minister
( response to the questions raised by the sénateursDavid Tkachuk and Terry Stratton the 24 November 99 . )
the figure of 85 million of $ not is not the only estimate made by the Minister Rock .
this figure is in fact which of the information that the Minister Rock has made to a Committee of the House of the Commons in April 1995 .
the documents in question thought the cost of the control of the weapons to gun for 5 years to 184 million of $ .
Les85 million of $ were necessary for to the system in place .
the rest covers the use of the former system ( C - 17 ) and the and of the new system .
in a bill agreed by the Parliament in 1994 , of new components have was ajoutées such that the notice forwarded to the earnings and a audit its of the history of the claimants of for .
after that the bill its was agreed , but before that the system has was public and ' in Bill , the provinces of the Alberta , of the Saskatchewan and of the Manitoba and that the Territories of the North - Western and the Yukon have announced that they not apply not the program in their Administration .
all these events have fact grimper the costs of has and of implementation in Bill of the system .
the Minister of the Justice states since 1998 that the costs of has and of implementation in Bill of the system who were be of 85 million of $ , are have à120 million of $ .
with the implementation in Bill of the new systèmele 1 December 1998 , our obligations provisions to the former system have widely decreased , all as the costs of development and of implementation in Bill .
finally , we feel that the costs means of Administration from to the Act on the weapons to gun should be comparable to those of other systems of Administration national such that the Board of the passeports or the Board of the ownership independent of the Canada .
we in are currently to the past steps of the negotiations with the provinces to the about of the Modèle of benefits of services who govern the Payments paid to the authorities by the government federal to the as of the costs administrative .
the fact that we are had of the problems with the implementation in Bill is of the field public .
we have asked to a home of expert - advice no of to a study for we help to determine the reasons of our difficulties of enforcement and of the solutions possible .
it has presented in June last a report who was of of problems from to the great number of mistakes in the requests sent for be treated by the system , to the ability of the system and to of the problems of productivity who from of our ' administrative .
the report fact also that the problems met to the step of the implementation in Bill were normal for a business of this dispute .
we have public a plan of action for answer to these difficulties .
the funds accorded for the enforcement of the program from of the Approbation effective of the bills ( AEP ) of the Council of the Board , pursuant to his policy on the great bills of the state .
, each year , between 1995 - 1996 and 1998 - 99 , the program has used the envelope scheduled by the AEP .
the resolution of the problems from to implementation in place of the program described this - with will of many the needs their to the Administration of the program to the over of the year 99 - 2000 .
the Minister of the Justice and the Centre Canadian of the weapons to gun wish apply the program with success without overtake the limits approved by the Council of the Board .
of the funds deprive not can be octroyés to the program without the consent of the Council .
all the parties wish that the program be exécuté of manner effective in despite of these on .
the Defence national
the Alternative of the granny of helicopters Sea King - Position ask of copy of the statement of the needs
( response to a question raised by the Senator J . Michael Forrestall the 25 November 99 )
as the Minister the has mentioned to several occasions , the aircraft Sea King must be replaced .
in fact , the Minister has confirmed that the an of the helicopters marine is his first priority in s of equipment and that a strategy of acquisition was in over of development .
the statement of the needs not will not tabled to this time - this in this House .
as the Minister the has indicated lines , in more of the statement of the needs , several questions must be examined and of other departments consulted .
the Government will a announcement when these questions will résolues .
visitor of in
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , before of from to the order of the day , I like draw your attention on the presence of a visitor of in in our galleries .
he the is Mr. Blair Wappel , who is Leader and ' of the nation crie Enoch .
, the behalf of all the senators , I you wish the welcome to the Senate .
order DAY THE
bill of bill on the protection of the information personal and the documents electronic
third Reading
the order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Kirby , seconded by the hon. Senator Bryden , Honourable to the third Reading of the bill of bill C - 6 , Act to to facilitate and to promote the trade Electronic in perpetuate the information personal collected , used or releases in some circumstances , in for the use of means electronic for bring or like of the information and of the transactions and in amend the Act on the evidence to the Canada , the Act on the were regulatory and the Act on the review of the laws , such that amended ;
and on the motion of amendment of the hon. Senator Murray , P , seconded by the hon. Senator Doody , that the bill of bill not be not now read a third time , but that he be amended , to the section 7 , to the page 7 :
has ) by deleting of the lines 19 to 23 ;
the hon. Michael Kirby :
honourable senators , I like deal of the amendment to the bill of bill proposed yesterday by the Senator Murray in the very plaisant statement .
his roots NDP - écossaises of the Cape - Cape are well evident to each time that he at the speak to the Senate .
I not have no the intention of égaler the ability oratoire and I me outline therefore of comment the further of his about .
this is many more easy .
he has asked why our right to the protection of the information personal should the éteindre20 years after our death .
as he the has has yesterday , that is a source of concerns for good number of people , particularly of the figures public as him .
I know the Senator Murray since long and I understand that he can be concern to this about .
when this question has was raised to the Committee , the members Liberal of the Committee were convinced that the Committee would mistake the he adoptait this amendment .
we estimions that this would a mistake the of that we had heard relatively little of testimony to this about .
that much with the amendment relatif to the sector of the health that we have adopted Tuesday to the step of the report .
we have heard a great number of witnesses express their opinion to about of this amendment .
we have in effect heard a broad range of witnesses of many p.m. during .
as I the have said yesterday , in s of health , the Committee was of notice unanimous that the amendment was be adopted .
we are therefore delighted that the Senate the has adopted yesterday .
the question that the Senator Murray has raised yesterday was on the presence , in the bill of bill C - 6 , of a clause who has for effect of are , 20 years after the Late of a human , the protection of the information personal assured by the bill of bill .
during of the few evidence that we have heard on the about , be we has said that a rule similar of 20 years there in of other laws , which the Act on the protection of the information personal and the Act on the Archives national of the Canada .
we have also heard that this not is not as if , in under of the bill of bill , be will automatically to all the requests of information regarding a human 20 years after the Late .
as the relates - speak of Industry Canada the have fact out in their testimony before the Committee , the bill of bill not highlights not completely end to the right to the respect of the life privacy of a human 20 years after the Late .
he allows the communication of information only to the for for which the data have was allow original , and only to the for for which the human would had to increase to this that be in it the raising for begin .
we have also heard a an in s of respect of the life privacy , Mr. Ian Lawson , who has supported a argument that or the Senator Murray or I - even not had heard before , to know that he there a principle legal be that be not can to apply the rights of a human a time that it is died .
the reaching Mr. Lawson was interesting .
he the suggested on the argument be that be not can give the consent a time that be is who .
that seemed may a problem practice except , as the Senator Murray and I the him have fact out , that this is to this time - that that between in at the problem of the heirs and of the members of the family .
or the Senator Murray or I not have " many of negative to the testimony Mr. Lawson .
a other witness expert on the protection of the information personal , Valerie Steeves , has fact a observation very interesting .
well that it has before on this bill of bill before the House of the Commons and that it for before we , and well that it ruined since long in this bill of bill , until to this that the Senator Murray addressed the question with it the week last , this question not him was never came to the spirit .
be not the had never interrogée to this about .
the question not had never was raised by the people which it has case .
this not is therefore not , honourable senators , a question which the witnesses who have appeared before the Committee have knowledge or to which they had thought .
this is a clause who the is in of other laws , which the Act on the protection of the information personal .
honourable senators , he has seemed to the majority of the members of the Committee , which I - even , that , conjunction to the work which I have spoke yesterday , regarding the need that the government entreprenne a strong review of the Act on the protection of the information personal to of the with of manner effective to the provisions that is the bill of bill C - 6 to the sector private , a part of this study should clear include a review of the called rule of the 20 years and that that should be fact of way thorough and quickly .
we have esteemed that in amend simply the bill of bill C - 6 and in leaving such what the various other laws federal , be characterized a double legislation of protection between the sector private and the government , who has already was in part created by the differences between the bill of bill C - 6 and the Act on the protection of the information personal .
those of between we who the find of the side of the majority to the Committee have favourite with this question in a time .
in of other words , the changes made to the Act on the protection of the information personal and to the Act on the Archives national of the Canada should the be in even time .
honourable senators , this is the key note that I have to to to the Senator Murray .
I am of agreed with him on the question that he has raised and on the further .
the majority of the members of the Committee , which I - even , think that this is a question of for .
it should be should when we parlerons of the changes to the Act on the protection of the information personal who should time .
therefore , honourable senators , that I , this not is not the time of proceed to this amendment , even if the purpose of this amendment not me with no problem .
this who me with problem , this is the choice of the time .
I hope that we Working of new the question when , presumably , the Act on the protection of the information personal will before the Committee under the pressure of this last , to the over of the next months .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , if no other Senator not wish take the speak , the vote relates on the motion of amendment proposed by the hon. Senator Murray .
that the honourable senators who are in favour of the motion of amendment " well say yes .
of the Senators :
yes .
the Hon. the Speaker :
that the honourable senators who are against " well say not .
of the Senators :
not .
the Hon. the Speaker :
, my notice , the not the " .
and two honourable senators the the surveys :
the Hon. the Speaker :
the whips me have informed that the be the was heard for that the stamp the it hear pendant30 minutes .
the honourable senators are - they of agreed ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Hon. the Speaker :
( the motion of amendment , implementation to the Senators , is defeated . )
the Hon. the Speaker :
pleasure - he to the honourable senators of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed and the bill of bill , read a third time , is adopted . )
speech of the Throne
motion of Adopted of the Adresse in response - Continued of the debate
the order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Jeffrey , seconded by the hon. Senator Furey , Honourable to the Adopted of a Adresse to His Excellency the Gouverneure general in response to the speech that her has by during of the openness of the second session of the 30 - sixth Parliament . - ( 7
e day of the resuming of the debate ) .
the hon. Leonard J . Gustafson :
honourable senators , I have listened the speech of the Throne with attention .
I am farmer , as the were my father and my great - father , and as the are my grandchildren - children , who are the fifth generation of farmers in our family .
my great - father , who was came of Sweden in 1905 for the establish to the Canada as farmer , was very proud of be Canadian .
I must say , in as of preamble , that we , the farmers , we are of the people proud .
however , these the days , I have seen of the men pleurer , I the have substandard the unravelling , I the have heard say that he was démoralisant of have to the concern and to we explain their situation .
the women , by against , have many least of difficulty to speak frankly of the situation by in which the is their family .
I know that the honourable senators of in opposite have as I heard the farmers speak in Committee of their problems and of the serious of their situation .
I see that the hon. Senator Joyce Fairbairn , who ' the vice - Speaker of the Committee of the agriculture , acquiescence of a sign of the head .
this morning , we have heard the testimony of the producers of Wheat unkind of the Alberta , who have statement their problems .
I not rise no happy to to this intervention today today .
honourable senators , I unless that the government , the Senate and the House of the Commons , the Prime Minister of the Canada and the public Canadian not can ignore the serious crisis who alarming the world agricultural because it is a problem national serious for the country all around .
it an not only the Saskatchewan , the Manitoba and the Alberta , but also the together of the country .
the farmers the in graduate - they all if difficulty ?
not , I wish to be all to fact clear and an to this about .
the producers of products dairy and of volaille , and that of other , the in graduate very well and we not want not their ôter what that this be .
in as that producers of grain , we have need of their support .
the industry of the cattle the in fate very well .
the producers of grain suffering many to because of the low price of the products of basic .
the price not have never was also there .
recently , I have persistent a are double of type B of Wheat to the silo of Weyburn .
this not was not a good quality of grain .
he had gelé for because of ensemencement tardif should to the time humide .
this chargement of grain we has reported to the total 3600 $ gross .
the amount of the cheque was of 1 400 $ .
I him have said that he would receive a up .
we go full of stories of this such .
the price of the grain has was very there .
the price of the oats is still piece of 40 cents yesterday .
the situation not is not also bad in Saskatchewan , where the income way is to the point the more there since corner .
these figures from of the departments of the Agriculture .
we have a serious problem on the what .
of the fact of the initiative of the government , not only the price of the products of basic has descended , but we know also of serious difficulties , including to the as of the rates of transportation of the goods .
, and occasions , the farmers have indicated that the third of the income from of the sales of their grain was in costs of transportation of this grain to the abroad , because we are enclavés .
we have heard this morning the producers of Wheat unkind of the Alberta , which have raised of important questions regarding the transportation of their grain .
I i that some of these changes the imposaient .
the elevator to grain of Macoum to was rasé to the bulldozer .
I me trouvais to Miami to this time - that and I am piece on my small - son .
he has wanted know why I had left to that .
the problem at a dimension affective , because in the Prairies , the people have the as of see a silo - elevator all the nine miles ; they are part of the décor .
, the seen of all that , of the changes the imposaient .
I am of agreed .
however , these changes have could be drew very differently .
I not to not politicize the debate , and yet I must remind some of the programs ' in place by the government Conservative for protect the farmers .
he there has had the Plan of insurance - income gross , which the benefits have was benefit for we .
this is the Senator Hays , if I not me read , who me has repeatedly to and occasions in Committee that we should we atteler to the réactualisation of these programs of protection of the income .
our program not was not perfect , but we must we defray of programs similar to long term for go of the before .
we are can - be all to blame , in a some legislation .
we have had few good years to the over which we not we are not many souciés of the problem and , well heard , the something the more important was of juguler the deficit of the time .
I believe that we recognize all that we were in are of losing the control of the deficit .
however , some measures that we have out of take to the regard of the agriculture have for of avoid of we on in the situation where we are today today .
honourable senators , that me brings to the program ACRA .
the government has ' many of money in this program , but he not works not .
we have heard say to and occasions that he not operated not .
I can appoint of the farmers who have received of the money , but who not have not should in receive .
he must reform this program in full .
I believe that he is obvious for all that this is necessary .
, my notice , a injected direct of capital would of of good results , and this is the opinion stated by of the farmers to Regina and to Estevan during of the meetings which I have attended .
that would could take the form of a payment to the acre .
, what point these needs are - they pressants ?
he there has a serious crisis and the - this system of the problems social .
some case are too tragic for be racontés .
of the people are came explain their situation during of meetings and have known in sanglots .
that some people , until to 15 suicides would directly account to the crisis agricultural .
the farmers are of the people very proud .
his great - parents have had the Russia with a only cow .
until to the age of 82 years , his great - mother has with the cows .
it not has never left the space forget that their first cow has saved the life of his two boys and their has for of come to the Canada .
the government has of the decisions serious to take and I think that he will this that he is .
I him am confidence , that given of all this who has was said and of all this who is fact for awareness the media and the government to the situation .
the Committee Standing of the other place the is shown very receptive to the evidence that he has heard to this about .
the Minister of the Agriculture of the Saskatchewan me has asked of the help to to the statement before the Committee Standing .
the members of the Committee have listened carefully .
they will table a report who approaches well of the elements that I am point today today .
I hope that the response will positive for our farmers .
the problems social have of the impact not only on the families and the hailed agricultural , but also on the together of the community .
the Hon. the Speaker good tempore :
the time of the hon. Senator Gustafson is has .
the hon. Senator ask he the leave of continue ?
the Senator Gustafson :
yes .
the Hon. the Speaker good tempore :
honourable senators , the leave is - it granted ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator Gustafson :
I to speak briefly of the impact of this situation on the communities and of the effects of the measures positive that the government at .
these people - that which of the employment .
they constrained in of the tracteurs , the trucks and the machinerie .
any the community considerable of their work .
if the be expenditure 1 $ in the sector agricultural , this amount the multiplie by seven , but this is that a all other question .
I not have not the time of to a about also important .
the contribution economic of the agriculture is the third in importance to the Canada .
the agriculture Canadian quoted of great profits to the Board .
we not can we to of let let this industry .
each Senator has the responsibility , not only to the level national , but also in the region that he represents , of ensure to this that the government this of the measures positive to of help our farmers to short and to long term .
( on the motion of the Senator Kinsella , to the behalf of the Senator LeBreton , the debate is adjourned . )
bill of bill admissibility the taken of some decisions Medical
second Reading - Continued of the debate
the order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Carstairs , seconded by the hon. Senator pin , Honourable to the second Reading of the bill of bill S - 2 , Act admissibility the taken of decisions Medical legitimate relatively to the treatment of survival and to the treatment of the pain . -
( the hon. Senator Lavoie - Roux ) .
the hon. Ione Christensen :
honourable senators , I rise the speak for support the bill of bill S - 2 , Act admissibility the taken of decisions Medical legitimate relatively to the treatment of survival and to the treatment of the pain .
since 15 years , I have had the honour of be the key soignante , of first , of my parents , then of a very old friend , a enseignant , who not had not of family and had need of care are .
, the time where these three people have reached the point where they had need of care palliative and of pharmacare against the pain , I was the human of confidence before the ensure that their wishes were respected .
in the three case , we have had of the discussions depth on this that they souhaitaient in s of treatment of survival and of fight against the pain , then with their doctors for ensure to this that their wishes be enrolled in their matter .
to the end , when the fight against the pain , the food and the hydratation artificielles are were necessary , I have was called for reaffirm their wishes since they not were more in legislation of the to .
in two case , I had a mandate in good and properly form , but , for these three people , I knew this that they want and I have could to respect their wishes .
that would - he came if I not had not was that ?
I have learned that the doctors and the staff infirmier hésitaient to not not operation of the care of treatment of survival .
they were in a zone grise , which fact s the subject of the bill of bill .
we have strongly need of lines guidelines national , of programs of education public and , particularly , of training professional in care palliative .
, the approach of the new millennium , a great over of our public will need of care similar , and we must be loans to fill this need .
I thank the Senator Carstairs and the other senators who have contributed to braquer the dimming on this question .
the Hon. the Speaker good tempore :
honourable senators , this section will recorded to the behalf of the Senator Lavoie - Roux .
Library of the Parliament
Adopted of the Prime report of the Committee Joint Standing
the Senate on to the study of the Prime report of the Committee Joint Standing of the Library of the Parliament ( mandate of the Committee ) , presented to the Senate the 8 December 99 . - ( - hon. Senator Robichaud , P ( - Acadie - graduated ) ) .
the hon. Louis J . Robichaud :
honourable senators , I move the Adopted of this report .
the Hon. the Speaker good tempore :
you pleasure - he , honourable senators , of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed , and the report is adopted . )
languages official
Adopted of the Prime report of the Committee Joint Standing
the Senate on to the study of the Prime report of the Committee Joint Standing of the languages official ( quorum ) , presented to the Senate 8 December 99 . - ( - hon. Senator Cool - Losier ) .
the hon. Rose - Marie Cool - Losier :
honourable senators , I move the Adopted of this report .
the hon. Serge Joyal ( His Hon. the Speaker Acting ) :
you pleasure - he , honourable senators , of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed , and the report is adopted . )
review of the policy Canadian antidrogues
motion Motion the training of a Committee Senate Special - Continued of the debate
the order of the day Order :
resuming of the motion of the hon. Senator Nolin , seconded by the hon. Senator Cohen :
that a Committee Special of the Senate be up to of reassess the laws and the political Canadian antidrogues , of consult been the public Canadian for determine the needs speak of the different regions of the country , more particularly that where the problems social from to the ' and to the use of drugs addressed are more overcoming , of develop of the proposals for according any information Current to the policy Canadian antidrogues and , finally , of produce of the recommendations for in come to the Adopted of a strategy antidrogues implementation to the point by and for the Canadians encouraged all the levels of government to work in close cooperation to the reduction of the barristers from to the consumption of drugs addressed .
without that this who following has for effect of limit the mandate , that the Committee be authorized to :
- review the approach agreed by the government federal for combat the consumption of drugs addressed to the Canada , the effectiveness as way of reduce the effects of the consumption of stupéfiants and the legislation in which the application is fair ;
- develop a policy national of reduction of the barristers to of relieve the impacts negative of the consumption of drugs addressed to the Canada and to of the recommendations on the way of apply this policy , including the possible of consider before all the use and the abuse of drugs as a problem socio - sanitaire ;
- study the models of reduction of the barristers adopted by of other country and determine , the he there would place , of the apply some or contributor , to the Canada ;
- to the role and the obligations international who describes to the Canada in under of the conventions of the Nations Nations on the stupéfiants , of the Declaration Universal of the rights of the man and of other treaties other to of determine if these treaties the is to take of the measures other that the from criminal and the pénalisation of the Offenders to the has international ;
- urge the effects of the fibre on the health and study the question of know if the employment of political alternatives to the about of the use of the fibre conduirait to a increase of the use and of the abuse to short and to long term ;
- study the possible that the government logjam of the power of regulatory that him authority the Act on the contraventions as way Supplementary of apply a policy of reduction of the barristers as he is of use in of other juridictions ;
- study any other question Current to the policy Canadian antidrogues that the Committee Justice appropriate for chamber the mandate .
that the Committee Special be composed of five senators and that the quorum be of three members ;
that the Committee has the power of to appear of the people and of produce of the documents , of hear of the witnesses , of to report of time to other and of to print to the day the day documents , you and evidence that the instructions of the Committee ;
that the you received and the evidence heard during of the review of the bill of bill C - 8 , Act to on the regulatory of some drugs and of their observation and that of other marine , by the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional during the second session of the 30 - fifth Parliament , be referred to the Committee ;
that the Committee be authorized to Authorize , the he the Justice timely , the television , the appropriate and the Electronic by the through of the media electronic of the all or of a part of his deliberations and of the information that he Canada ;
that the Committee be authorized to sit for the adjournments of the Senate in under of the paragraph 95 ( 2 ) of the Rules of the Senate ; and
that the Committee its the report final to the more later three years after the date of his creation . - (
the hon. Senator Kenny ) .
the hon. Colin Kenny :
honourable senators , I rise the speak today today for speak of the motion of the Senator Nolin to to form a Committee Senate Special for reassess the laws and the political Canadian antidrogues .
he is great time of review our strategies current of fight against the consumption of drugs .
honourable senators , he is obvious for we all that the attitude of the Canadians to the regard of the political antidrogues and of their results has changed .
the Canadians are of more in more many to recognize that the political current not are not the results souhaités .
of the are of money important are net in the application of the laws antidrogues , but the problems social and the problems of health from to the drug continue of there and taking even of the magnitude .
the creation of a Committee Special responsible of the broad mandate who is proposed would the way ideal of consult the public .
that would to define the needs own of the various regions .
of the legal and of the doctors experts commend a strategy antidrogue who é that of the aspects legal , of the problems of health and of the questions financial .
honourable senators , he the is of a question burning .
more of a year the is already has since that Diane Riley has presented , in November 1998 , the report on the drugs and the policy on the drugs to the Canada , report that it has prepared for the Senator Nolin .
the time is come of canvassing the opinions of the Canadians , of see what are their values and of take in that the costs and the benefits of the political existing .
the information on of the approaches and models different them to the abroad would to choose the political to develop for the Canada .
the questions legal , the problems of health and the concerns financial who the collected to the consumption of stupéfiants the multiplient and than constantly in difficult .
as he the is of a question sensitive , the governments have too often trend to the éluder .
this attitude not is not in the interest of the Canada and of his citizens .
the first recommendation of the report Riley to that he there has a inquiry on the policy Canadian in s of drugs and on his relations with the right within and international , there including the standards provisions to the rights of the human .
the inquiry must also to on the political and the programs of other country in the s .
since the Tabled of the report , he not the is fact no inquiry .
the Senator Nolin we has all record service in we made that the consumption of stupéfiants with of important problems are we must we interest .
he we must a information sure to the about of the consumption of drugs to the Canada .
as a Committee Special of the Senate would the power of question of the witnesses , of such the production of documents and of receive of the you and of the evidence , the report final would a source reliable of information objectives .
a Committee Special could to the point of view , the analysis , the reflection necessary for find of the solutions possible to the problems that an the consumption of drugs and the political antidrogue to the Canada .
needless of say that the government the interest cleansing to the results of a study as the - that , and this is for the Senate a excellent opportunity of play a role of Prime plan in this very important matter .
honourable senators , I you urge to support the motion of the Senator Nolin to creation of a Committee Special responsible of study the question of the use of drugs illégales to the Canada .
( on the motion of the Senator Hays , the debate is adjourned . )
bill of bill on the protection of the information personal and the documents electronic
motion Requesting to the Committee of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology of scinder the bill of bill in two - Withdrawn of the section
the order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Murray , P , seconded by the hon. Senator Beaudoin ,
that he be of to the Committee Senate Standing which will referred the bill of bill C - 6 the education next :
that he has the power of scinder the bill of bill C - 6 , Act to to facilitate and to promote the trade Electronic in perpetuate the information personal collected , used or releases in some circumstances , in for the use of means electronic for bring or like of the information and of the transactions and in amend the Act on the evidence to the Canada , the Act on the were regulatory and the Act on the review of the laws , in two bills of bill , the Prime the set of the Partie 1 and of the as 1 with of the by and a clause of into in effect and the second the set of the rest of the bill of bill and of the annexes 2 and 3 with of the by ; that the deliberations on the second bill of bill can be delayed until after the study of the Prime ; that the a or the other of the bills of bill can to the subject of a report to the Senate managed after have was examined ; and that , regardless of the impressive convenient , the Senate give this education not any when after have was before of the bill of bill , even after that the Committee will began the study . - (
the hon. Senator Kirby ) .
the hon. ë A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I not see not how the section No. 22 can remain to the Paper .
he has was prepared of the bill of bill and a message has was advocates to the other place .
we not are not before of the bill of bill C - 6 .
he must the rayer of the Paper .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
of agreed .
the Hon. the Speaker good tempore :
the honourable senators are - they of agreed for that this motion be withdrawn of the Paper ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the section is from . )
the freedom religious in China in report with the pactes international of the Nations Nations
inquiry - Continued of the debate
the order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the inquiry of the hon. Senator Wilson , calling the attention of the Senate on the freedom religious in China in report with the pactes international of the Nations Nations . - (
the hon. Senator Di Nino ) .
the hon. Consiglio Di Nino :
honourable senators , as this is tomorrow the Day of the rights of the man , I wish to participate to the debate on this inquiry .
this is with happy , in fact , that I at to the debate on the inquiry of the Senator Wilson on the freedom religious in China .
I like benefit also of the opportunity for comment of the comments that has made the Senator Austin , as on this about that on the question closely of the situation of the rights of the human in China .
his hosts Chinese have should many the sustains .
I have was rather mystifié , however , by his comments regarding the group witty Falun Gong , which I will a little more in a moment .
the Senator Wilson has said that his " partners church " , who are the Églises determined , I i , it the Falun Gong as a organization foreign to the influence déstabilisante and dangerous .
I not see not on what the based this with rather hardie .
I not have certainly nothing seen who can me have to a such conclusion .
as not the know without doubt not the Senator Wilson , the Constitution Chinese guarantees the freedom of belief .
why therefore his partners church and , therefore , it - even , I there , taking - they the Falun Gong to part ?
is - this because this is a of the five religions official of the China ?
that me décevrait .
I would believed that the Senator Wilson , that given of the importance to the within of his community religious and of the experience country , would more tolérante .
in from , I have read this morning that he there would 30 million of Christian Chinese who into each day of be by , fought or emprisonnés by the authorities Chinese .
he seems that they not the will not in of the be of culte approved officially .
he would interesting of know if the Senator Wilson or his colleagues have asked the question to their hosts during their visit in China .
honourable senators , before that we interrompions our business for our summer of was , the Senator Austin the in is took to I for some comments that I had made to the about of the respect of the rights of the human in China .
he said in large that I cherchais too the confrontational and that we should be more conciliants with the Chinese .
in of other words , we should close the be on some abuse made that - there .
he is obvious that I not then be of agreed with that .
this is a well a picture , but he not is not totally true .
honourable senators , our relations with the China are based on three major followed .
he there has all of first the Immigration .
I have had my first contacts with the China and the Chinese to the end of the years 50 , then that I was a young banquier in the Headquarters Chinese of Toronto .
, the over of the years , I have in of the contacts with various members of the community Chinese and I can say without hesitation that their presence has helped to promote the by of our country .
the Canadians of origin Chinese are a enormous contribution to the Canada .
they working durum and this are of the citizens honest and slips .
they élargissent and by our culture .
the Canada is the great it for this who is of the Immigration Chinese .
however , be not can not say , that I , that the even something the applies in the case of the second track of our relations with the China , the Affairs and the trade .
in the years before 1993 , these relations were relatively stable .
the trade commercial were to little close équivalents .
if I not me read , they were of the order augmented billion of $ by year of each side .
all that has changed when the government present is came to the power .
since 1993 , the taxpayers Canadian are forced of firms , to the of million of $ , and be know the figure exactly , the attempts made Mr. Chr and his colleagues of increase the presence of the Canada in China and our opportunities on the market Chinese .
the results are surviving , this is the least that be can say .
in fact , since this period , the value of the exports Canadian to the China has falling regularly then that the value of the worth has more that doubled .
in fact , it has virtually triplé , except mistake .
the third track of the reports that we involvement with the China with the role that the Canada has traditionally played as this of the rights of the human .
, a time , honourable senators , the governments Canadian favorisaient of the values and of the fight who were the envy of the world .
unfortunately , as we the know all , this not is not the case when he is question of the China .
now , we not are more that a other group of people of Affairs who are to obtain of the markets .
we not défendons absolutely more the idea that he should there have a link between the rights of the human and the trade .
the Prime Minister Chr said that our country has a too small size for influer on the China .
Mr. . Chr we said that he is a great friend of the leaders Chinese .
why not the there - he not of this friendship ?
our best friends to the world are the citizens of the States - United of America .
our small size not we from not of the criticize .
we the do continually .
why not can - we not act of the even way to the place of the China ?
why aside this treatment Special to the government Chinese ?
why the government Chinese with - he as to forward his Criminal to remain to the within of the boundaries of the country ?
honourable senators , the was last , few weeks after that the Senator Austin has of to the House the insurance that the China had changed for the better , the government Chinese has appréhendé more of 30 . of his citizens .
since this time , he has continued the authorize .
for what crime ?
that the government Chinese and , I the i , that the partners church of the Senator Wilson , this is because that they adhèrent to the movement witty Falun Gong , which I have spoke he there has few minutes .
in more of appréhender all these people , the government has ordered that more of 1.5 million of cassettes , of brochures and of other sections from to the movement be confisqués or adversely .
he there has even had of the autodafés of books .
honourable senators , he is someone little difficult of the imagine that he can there have of the autodafés of books to the enter of the third millennium .
of the books have was brûlés for the " and that under the regime premier .
the communistes Chinese seem now have added their behalf to this short but however occasional list , and the Senator Austin as that of progress .
honourable senators , in me as on the question of the rights of the human , I not have we the intention of diaboliser the Chinese .
I believe firmly that the Chinese , those who are IT , are also horrifiés of see this who the on in their country .
my comments is therefore the government and not the people Chinese .
the Prime Minister said that we not have no influence .
why then the government continues he of preach to the world around the importance of the rights of the human ?
this is the a of his objectives basic .
the rights of the human not are - they not part of the policy foreign of the Canada ?
that seems obvious .
the note said also a document entitled : " - Canada in the world " .
that this document , the Canada can to a important cooperation to the security international in by the promotion of the values Canadian , this who includes the respect of the rights of the human , of the democracy and of the rule of the right .
why not the do - we not in the case of the China ?
why not do - we not the promotion of our values in this case ?
he seems that the be not will not speak of other something that of the meetings to senior level and to camera closed , of the symposiums multilateral , of the initiatives of cooperation and of the bills of dialogue .
if the government believes that the freedom of religion and the rights of the human are of the pillars of our policy foreign , he should the say to all the world without exception .
he should shown by his actions that he has the courage of his convictions .
why the Prime Minister not the " he not before the representatives of the world for criticize the occupation of the Tibet or the persecution religious of the Falun Gong in China ?
the on trade are - they if strong or the itself - saying links of friendship with the leaders Chinese if low ?
the hon. Senator Wilson we said that his partners church of China are of notice that the Falun Gong is a threat to the stability of the China .
this is strange .
the bouddhistes not are not a threat , the Catholic and the protestants not more , and he seems that or the each or the other not believe to the Prophète or to those who looking the interdependent of the taoïsme .
he not there has that the members of the Falun Gong .
honourable senators , Monday of this week , the chairman American , Mr. Clinton , contrary to the counterpart Canadian , has fact a statement to this about .
he has described the - collective of the members of the Falun Gong as
... a example disturbing of a legislation government to the with of people who while test the limits of the freedom .
and he has added this :
the Targets of the government Chinese not are not of the dissidents political , and we know their practices and beliefs .
but the principle not in remains not least the even : freedom of conscience and freedom of association .
I specific that the comments Mr. Clinton s in the even sense that the point of view expressed the months last by the two Houses of the Congress American .
in effect , in a resolution concurrente , the House of the representatives and the Senate have exhorté the China to stop of persécuter the movement Falun Gong .
the resolution was point to fair as that the shut of the secte Falun Gong seem the own Constitution of the China .
that is also contrary to the Covenant international relatif to the rights Political and political and to the Declaration Universal of the rights of the man .
honourable senators , to the time where the Canadians are on the point of saluting the end of the Hanukkah and the prepares to the ë , we should all reflect to the values fundamental that are these traditions .
the lest of the Lumières , the birth of the Christ and the other celebrations of the such we recall that he there has of the values transcendantes that all the men shared and place .
these observe we recall that he there has in the world of the places where these values are so and the people human who the professent , persecution .
the time is help , I believe , for those of between we who goûtent the fruit of the freedom and of the democracy of prier for our similar who not have not this opportunity .
in our prayers , honourable senators , we should also ask that the government reprenne his spirit and it of the Canada the great champion of the rights of the human across in the world .
( on the motion of the Senator Poy , the debate is adjourned . )
the Estimates of the Estimates of 99 - 2000
notice of motion to Authorized to the Committee of the Finance national of study the Budgets of the Estimates - Motion of amendment - Stands of the debate
the order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Murray , P , seconded by the hon. Senator Beaudoin ,
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Finance national be authorized to study , to of in to report , the Estimates expenditures in the Estimates of the Estimates for the year financial the ending the 31 March 2000 ; and
that the Committee its the report to the more later 31 March 2000 ;
and on the motion of amendment of the hon. Senator Robichaud , P ( St. - Louis - of - Kent ) , seconded by the hon. Senator Payette - Hervieux , P , that the motion be amended by adding , after the words , " the Estimates of the Estimates for the year financial the ending the 31 March 2000 " of this who following :
" to the exception of the appropriation 1 , 5 and 10 of the Fisheries and Oceans ;
that the Committee Senate Standing of the fisheries be authorized to study the Estimates expenditures of the Fisheries and Oceans content in the Estimates of the Estimates for the year the ending the 31 March 2000 ; and
the hon. Eymard G . Corbin :
in of other words , I have adjourned the debate to the behalf of the Senator Stollery , who is absent now .
I ask that this section to the order of the day be now recorded to the behalf of the Senator Stollery .
( the debate is order . )
the Summit of the Francophonie
inquiry - Adjourned of the debate - Maintien of the section
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I ask , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the paragraph 27 ( 3 ) of the Rules , that this notice of inquiry rest to the Paper until to the break of ë .
the Hon. the Speaker good tempore :
is - this of agreed , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator Hays :
I will provide a explanation , if the senators the wish .
honourable senators , this notice of inquiry disparaîtra of the Paper to the next Senate since he there is since 14 days .
I announcement to the honourable senators that I have the intention of propose that the Senate the adjourned to 16 p.m. Monday .
the Senator Gauthier would speak to this about Tuesday .
for that the notice of inquiry not be not rayé of the Paper before that the Senator has the opportunity of speak , I ask the leave of extend the deadline of so that he there rest until to the break of ë .
the hon. ë A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , the Senator Hays the is now expressed on this inquiry .
we , of this side - this , not verrions not of objection to this that the notice of inquiry rest recorded to the behalf of the Senator Gauthier and to this that the that of days of Senate concise to a .
we are completely of agreed to this about and accept that the Senator Gauthier ruined to this about Tuesday next or not any what other day .
the Hon. the Speaker good tempore :
the honourable senators are - they of agreed for that the notice of inquiry No. 1 , recorded to the behalf of the Senator Gauthier , rest to the Paper ?
the Senator Hays :
honourable senators , he is fair and correct of the on of the Senator Kinsella of interpret my about as if I me was expressed on the inquiry .
in this case , as the Senator Kinsella the has explained , the that of days of Senate regarding the inquiry with to a for the next Senate .
that allows of to the purpose know of a way more élégante , can - be , that this that I had proposed .
that me believe satisfactory .
the hon. Eymard G . Corbin :
honourable senators , I is the with that which the Senator Hays , even the Senator Kinsella , the is expressed on the inquiry .
this is to the Senator who give notice of a inquiry that with the privilege of in speak in Prime .
the Senator Gauthier not the is not still by on this about .
to for learning that if a other human has spoke of this inquiry which we not know nothing , that has for effect of bring to zero the number of days recorded to the Paper would create a dangerous precedent .
this said , if we vote unanimous of bring this figure to zero , in despite of the fact that the Senator Gauthier not has not still fact the inquiry , this is a other case , and I accepterais that we tarred of the so .
the Senator Kinsella :
I support to the interpretation and to the board of the Senator Corbin .
I think that he has fully reason and I am all to fact of agreed with him .
my analysis was erronée .
the hon. Sharon Carstairs :
honourable senators , I think that if we convenions that the inquiry No. 1 paraisse in the Paper of the next Senate as if this was the Prime day , all the world would happy .
the hon. John Lynch - Lynch ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , suppose that a inquiry or a motion be placed to my behalf and that I not can not in speak the week next .
should - I point this precedent for ask that we return to the day a without debate ?
we must to very attention to the manner which we appliquons this principle .
the Senator Gauthier has said that he insolvent the speak Tuesday to the about of the inquiry .
he enough of there that he can to the inquiry Tuesday , to the place of create a precedent General , that he would for the other very trying of point .
jugeons rather each case to the deserves .
the Senator Hays :
if this is acceptable , I prierai my colleagues of give their agreed .
the Hon. the Speaker good tempore :
pleasure - he to the honourable senators that the motion continues to be placed to the Paper to the behalf of the Senator Gauthier until to Tuesday ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the section is as . )
the rights of the human and the conflict multiethniques
inquiry - adjournment of the debate
the hon. ë A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) , to of notice the 6 December 99 :
- honourable senators , such is the about which I to speak .
that given of the hour , I presenting a version abrégée of my comments .
if I to speak today today of this question , this is that the Senator Andreychuk has fact know , in the statement that it has introduced to the beginning of the its Senate , that tomorrow , the 10 December , is the Day international of the rights of the man .
the Senator Di Nino has also were that to our attention when he has took the speak all to the hour .
the Day international of the rights of the man , the 10 December , is a day important for the community international .
as the Canadians overwhelmingly enormous of importance to the rights of the human , he is , I believe , that we , of the House high of the Parliament , pasts all am of the Declaration Universal of the rights of the man .
he is also important that we rappelions that a an Canadian has in to the drafting of the Declaration Universal of the rights of the man who has was proclaméele 10 December 1948 by the Assembly general of the Nations Nations .
this fall , to the UN , in a report that he has presented to the Council of security , which the Canada is currently a member permutant , the present Secretary General , Kofi Annan , has spoke of the protection of the Political to the over of the conflict armed .
the Secretary General has said that , in despite of the Adopted , to the over within past years , of various conventions on the rights international , humanitarian and human , he not the on to little close not a day without that of the Political innocent be bone , brutalisés , torturés and killed in of the conflict armed .
that he the whether of mutilations to the Sierra Leone , of genocide to the catalogued , of purification ethnic in the Balkans or of disparitions in America Latin , the parties to of the conflict their was these conventions on the rights human .
honourable senators , the end of the War Cold has can - be journey the world of the threat of a War nuclear his .
in even time , however , since the further of the Dickie of Berlin , more of 4 million of people have was driving in of the conflict violent and he rest of the million of refugees and of people displaced in the world around .
the events s in the Balkans and , in this only decade indicate to what point he is pressing of the deal to the complexités of the conflict multiethniques modern .
in even time , we are horrifiés by the were events who are s to the catalogued in 1994 .
we recognize that these issues are extremely complex .
as the Secretary General the has also fact out , we persistent that the - of the peace and of the security international does a intervention to all the steps of a conflict or of a conflict requires , to of the avoid , of in minimize the consequences and of there to a term a time that he has began , or in view of throughout the - of the peace and the contribution of the peace , there including the reconciliation and the Administration of the justice , a time the conflict debated .
the Canada at drew to these interventions international , and we are proud that our country and the Canadians can to of the contributions of this such .
all these actions are important .
he must back in question the one ideas , there including the concept of rule of the sovereignty of the States and of the integrity territorial .
as the has supported , in September , the Secretary General Annan :
of the concept of sovereignty strictly traditional not can more to justice to the aspirations of all the Peoples of access to their freedoms fundamental ...
of the abuses massives and systématiques of the rights of the human , where that they can the produce , not should not be tolérées .
honourable senators , the community international must recognize that , with the end of the War Cold , the security of the people , this who includes their rights human , becomes more important that the security of the States .
today today , be not there more that the right international would a more great priority to the sovereignty of the States and to the integrity territorial that to the rights of the human or to the autodétermination .
honourable senators , I believe that to of the protection of the rights of the human the Prime principle of the relations international help our to avoid of the conflict multiethniques and to promote a democracy and a peace best .
we must go over - beyond of the principle of the sovereignty of the States , who has dominé the relations international until to this day .
we must to to the principles of the Declaration Universal of the rights of the man and to those of the conventions and of the treaties international on the rights of the human who have was élaborés to the on of the Declaration Universal and who the in analysis .
honourable senators , unfortunately , force we is of recognize that the country have often , to the over of the decades , misses to the commitments enrolled in these instruments their to the rights of the human .
the senior - Commissioner of the Nations Nations to the rights of the man , Mary Gairey , former chairman of the Ireland , has admitted in a statement that it has fact the there of the fiftieth anniversary of the Nations Nations the year last that :
when be fact the that of 50 years of implementation in place of instruments their to the rights of the man and of 30 years of programs of development of several billion of $ and of speech of senior level , the results not are hardly panels ...
this is a such failure that we should have shame .
as the senior - Commissioner to the Nations Nations of the rights of the man , Ms Gairey , has added :
in this who with the institution of standards , the work is fact in great part .
the standards international in this who with the rights of the man are in place .
the task for we all ... is of the apply .
( on the motion of the Senator Beaudoin , the debate is adjourned . )
Library of the Parliament
withdrawal of the motion to Authorized to the Committee Joint Standing of sit for the sittings of the Senate
, the call of the motion No. 32 :
that the Committee Joint Standing of the Library of the Parliament be authorized to sit for the sittings and the adjournments of the Senate ; and
that a message be sent to the House of the Commons for the in inform .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I ask that this motion be withdrawn of the Paper .
the question has was resolved by the Adopted of the Prime point formula under the Order " Rapports of committees " regarding the Committee Joint Standing of the Library of the Parliament .
the Hon. the Speaker good tempore :
is - this of agreed , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is withdrawn . )
Affairs Social , Science and Technology
motion to Authorized to the Committee of study the of of the system of health - Adjourned of the debate
the hon. Michael Kirby , to of notice Tuesday 28 October 1986 :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology be authorized to to , for in to report , the of of the system of health to the Canada .
more particularly , that the Committee be authorized to to :
has ) - principles basic on which is based the system public of health to the Canada ;
d ) - system of health to the Canada - pressure and on ;
e ) - role of the government federal in the system of health to the Canada ;
that the Committee its the report final to the more later the 14 December 2001 ; and
that the Committee be authorized , by derogation to the rules usuelles , to table all report with of the Clerk of the Senate if the Senate not seat not to this time - that ; and that the report be being have was tabled to the Senate .
this mandate has received the approval unanimous of the members of the Committee .
this study has for subject basic of take act of the changes important on the point of speak in the system of care of health for various reasons , including the evolution demographics , the innovations pharmaceutical and technological , and the expectations new of the Canadians regarding their rights in s of care of health .
the members of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology feel that this is probably , on the plan social , the question strategic the more important and also the more problems in our country .
the impact of the costs from to the care of health are such that the system present not will very probably not viable on the plan economic in a future result .
the members of the Committee want about a series of studies who would all related to of the studies which préalablement , of by their about and that their progress logical .
we want to a gallery where the be can discuss , of a manner general , of the policy Canadian of the care of health in the years to come and , more particularly , of the role of the government federal .
we hope also , with the time , power develop a series of recommendations strategic to the intention of the government federal , recommendations regarding the role in the system of care of health .
if the Senate does this mandate , the Committee steering élaborera , in January , a plan of work detailed who will submitted to the members of the Committee , then to those of the Committee of the Economy Economy .
the hon. Consiglio Di Nino :
honourable senators , then - I for few questions ?
the chairman has he consulted the Minister of the Health to this about ?
the case if , can - he we to on of the results of these consultation ?
the Senator Kirby :
if I had consulted the Minister of the Health and that he me had déconseillé of to this study , I me would found in a situation sensitive .
if the motion is which and that a plan of work is public , I be happy of me speak with the representatives of the Department .
I not have not spoke of this question to the Minister or to no representative of the Department .
the Senator Di Nino :
honourable senators , the questions of health chevauchent of the sectors of jurisdiction federal and provincial .
the chairman has he the intention of cooperate with the provinces or of coordinating the efforts been by the different levels when come the time of planned the business future of the Committee ?
the Senator Kirby :
honourable senators , I am to answer , because the study would new on the role of the government federal in the field of the health .
in this it , he would desirable of discuss with of the ministers provincial and of the representatives of the provinces and of hear their evidence .
the Committee not has absolutely not the intention of the immiscer in the questions of jurisdiction provincial .
we want determine what changes he would to to the policy federal current .
the Senator Di Nino :
honourable senators , the care of health matters primarily of the provinces and of the territories .
the patients are directly and primarily affected by the provinces .
I me ask how this type of study can be realized without the cooperation serious of those who fournissent the services of health to the public .
he must well understand how these roles can change in the future structure of the care of health .
the Senator Kirby :
honourable senators , I am fully of agreed with the Senator Di Nino .
I répondais to his first question when I have said that the Committee entendrait the witnesses of the governments provincial .
all as the reason who me because to not not speak to the Minister of the Health before the approval of this study by the Senate , we do attention to not not have the air of approve or of adopt the referred of a question to a Committee Senate on the basic of a veto of the governments provincial .
of other on , the government provincial and of many other organizations are of the meeting to on full in these questions and we wish the consult during the process .
the Senator Di Nino :
honourable senators , I not wish not extend this debate .
that characterized - he a problem to the Committee if I ajournais this debate until to this that I can obtain the comments of the members of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology ?
the Senator Kirby :
honourable senators , he there would a problem if the motion not was not which before the adjournment of ë .
if the Senate does this mandate , we have the intention of work in January to the development of a plan detailed .
I not will not this effort if we not have not the approval .
the Senator Di Nino :
I not créerai not of behind .
I like add someone something .
we entreprenons many of studies and of business in Committee without that he there has of debate to the Senate or with very little of debate .
and , when we deducted per . $ or more , he must that the Canadians who the wish can know of what he not in read our deliberations .
this is very widest .
by therefore , if you not have not of objection , we we pencherons on the question the week next and I move the adjournment of the debate .
the hon. Nicholas W . Taylor :
honourable senators , I thank the Senator Kirby of have ' this idea of the before because that this is someone something that the Senate can to and for which he is qualified .
I thank also the Senator Di Nino of have raised a idea to which I had thought , to know that he not would not needless of to the focus on the provincial as that on the federal .
I say that the idea of the Senator Kirby of not not ask the leave pre to the ministers of the Health of afraid of essuyer a refusal is good - and I about in knowledge of because after have high nine children who have all used this strategy .
I know very well how this strategy works and it seems operate .
in our system of health public , the part private , by example , the offices of doctors , is always a some importance .
if the Committee in had the time , he could the with on the reports between the private and the public .
as the honourable senators the know , this is a question very problems .
the Senator Kirby :
honourable senators , I say that that will certainly a question that we Working in detail .
addition the fact that this is enough obvious , when be analysis the questions related to the direction Social which the country is they , the question of know if the system of health present is really sustainable is the question essential .
this is this who we has expediency to enter in the debate .
however , he there has three or four weeks , the government of the Alberta has fact a statement of principle on the construction of hospitals private to Calgary .
my reaction personal to the Reading of this statement of the government of the Alberta , this is that I have found this proposal all to fact consistent to the Act Canadian on the health .
I the say in despite of the about very émotifs of a myriad of people to the with of the proposal of the Alberta , there including of the people of the other place .
be said in from , garnered number of these people - that dismiss , in their protests , that the proposal of the government of the Alberta not is not consistent to the Act Canadian on the health .
he me seems that if we must to a debate on any the question of the system of health , he is to all the least of the Corrections on of the facts and on the reality .
this is why I think that we must we with on the question of the sector private .
I am all to fact of agreed .
the hon. John Lynch - Lynch ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , to the risk of me repeat ardua nauseam , I must express my concern as to the fact that the be ask to the Senate that he give as that to a Committee .
I not have nothing against the subject of the study , but this is and that the be are for all the requests of the committees when he the is of studies who are also complex , détaillées and requisite that the - this .
this study will a year and half , even more , because it could be constitutes for of the reasons valid .
the Senator Nolin has asked the Authorized of to a study who will to the least three years , without even to of plan of work General or of budget .
how will this study to the Senate ?
still a time , honourable senators , I think that we at the disker before the boeufs .
we giving the Authorized , after what , the Committee of Economy Economy , including , must the machine for find the funds , the staff and all the rest .
the good way of proceed for a Committee would , of first , of establish the budget , of define the mandate and of where the office of the study .
for my on , I is that this way of proceed is better to the where the be give as that to the Committee without the concern of this that that will and of the time that that will .
the hon. Colin Kenny :
the Senator Lynch - Lynch :
not , I not have not fact that .
the Senator Di Nino :
honourable senators , I not believe not that this be that a question that .
I believe understand that , that the Senator Lynch - Lynch , he we must review the process that we have followed until to now for see if we could the improve in require , before of approve the study , of have to the least a idea of the cost .
without that , he the could that we we dealing to approve a study which the cost final the élèverait to 40 million $ , that we not have not .
I believe that the note of the hon. Senator is very valid .
I hope convince my colleagues , of the least those of this side - this who are members of the Committee Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology , of reflect also to this question , in will that we able have a discussion met to this about the week next .
I not to not defeat the debate , but I be happy of propose the adjournment , to least that someone a of other not available take the speak .
the hon. Sharon Carstairs :
honourable senators , I me is to be of agreed to the time with the Senator Lynch - Lynch and with the Senator Kenny , even if their were are diamétralement contradictory .
I will you explain why .
the Rules of the Senate of the Canada not allows not to a Committee of ask of the money before that the mandate not has was approved .
I am of agreed with the Senator Lynch - Lynch for say that we do the things to the to , this is - to - say that before of Authorize a Committee to to a study , we should have a idea of this that it will .
this is exactly why , when I have fact my ask , - I believe that this was he there has two weeks - I have of a Senate a plan of work and indicated the cost approximatif of this plan of work .
incidentally , this budget has was submitted this morning to the Committee of the Economy Economy , who the has repaired of half .
the Committee of the Economy Economy believed - and he the is that I am of agreed with him on this point - that he not had not a enough good idea of this that the other committees réclameraient ; he has therefore decided of be the amounts budget step by step .
that I , we have raised this after - afternoon a problem as to our Rules and to our procedures .
the Senator Kirby has presented to the behalf of the Committee a ask of study special that all the members of this Committee have seconded to the unanimously .
he was therefore the to before the Senate , pursuant to our Rules present , for before the Senate of this proposal and obtain the leave deal before of power then prepare a budget before be referred to the under - Committee responsible of the Budgets and , in end of that , to the Committee of the Economy Economy .
I not am not in disagreement with the Position of the Senator Lynch - Lynch .
in fact , I am of agreed with him and we have already had of the discussions to this about in the past because this is , that I , the way which we should proceed .
the Senator Kenny :
honourable senators , I not see really nothing of difficulty in the provisions current of the Rules .
I not believe not that the Committee of the Economy Economy should decide for we on what studies or interpellations we can we with .
I not is nothing to quarrel to the model proposed by the Senator Carstairs , this is - to - say that the Committee give a estimate general of the costs of the study .
he the is in amount of a process in two steps .
if the approval not just not of a side as of the other , the study not the will not .
the first step is to obtain the approval of the Senate .
the second is of the address to the Committee of the Economy Economy in the hope of obtain the resources financial The .
if the Senate refuses the approval , needless of the address to the Economy Economy .
if the Senate give the support , while that the Economy Economy not has not of what fund properly the study , the Committee is private of means and not can throughout the study .
he would without doubt possible to the chairman of before the Senate of the problem and of in call of the report of the Economy Economy , this that all Senator is in right of to .
I believe by against that he is difficulty of the address of first to the Committee , who can to barrier to the bill .
( on the motion of the Senator Di Nino , the debate is adjourned . )
adjournment
leave to was granted of to to the notice of motion of the government :
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the ( 58 ( 1 ) p.m. ) of the Rules , I move :
that , when the Senate the adjourns today today , this be until to Monday next , the 13 December 99 , to 16 p.m. .
the Hon. the Speaker good tempore :
leave granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
( the Senate the adjourned to the Monday 13 December 99 , to 16 p.m. . )
debates of the Senate ( Hansard )
wondering Session , Session st ,
volume 6,401 , Issue 20
the Monday 13 December 99
the hon. Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker
table of the Contents
the Late of the hon. R . James raise , . C .
tribute
the SENATE
the Monday 13 December 99
the Senate is met to 16 p.m. , the Speaker the to the Chair .
prayers .
the Late of the hon. R . James raise , . C .
tribute
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , by respect for our colleague who just of décéder , the hon. Senator raise , I you urge to you rise and to having with I a minute of silence .
( the senators observent a minute of silence . )
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , in sign of respect for our former colleague , the Senator raise , I move that the Senate the adjourned now .
( the Senate the adjourned to 14 p.m. tomorrow . )
debates of the Senate ( Hansard )
wondering Session , Session st ,
volume 6,401 , Issue 21
the Tuesday 14 December 99
the hon. Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker
table of the Contents
the Late of the hon. R . James raise , . C .
tributes
' ' '
the Manitoba
the First nation of Cross Lake - - rate of suicide high
the New - Brunswick
the bill of bill to to establish a day of commémoration of the Holocaust
the Games Olympics special
Ottawa - - Games of Winter of the year 2000
visitor of in
languages official
the Act of implementation in implement of the Agreement on the Station spatiale international civil
report it of the Committee
the adjournment
bill of bill on the Agreement final nisga' has
first Reading
bill of bill of appropriation No. 2 for 99 - 2000
first Reading
the Association Parliamentary Canada - NATO
the delegation to the session Annual of 99 held to Amsterdam , to the Netherlands - Lower - Report of the report
the recommendations of the Board Royal on the Peoples aboriginal regarding the service government aboriginal
notice of motion Motion the Committee of the Peoples aboriginal to until the date of Presented of the report final
PERIOD PERIOD question
the Affairs Intergovernmental
the bill of bill on the or of the process referendum - - guideline of application
the Court Supreme
the terminologie regarding the decision on the referred relatif to the referendum
the transport
the Nova - Nova - - commitment of the government federal of expand to four Ways the road EH
the Finance
the distribution of appropriation to the as of the Plan of Pension of the Canada in case of federalist of the wedding
the health
the possible of a regulation regarding the adding of caffeine to the drinks
the ask of a study on the effects of the caffeine
the behind in the publication of the report scientific
the fisheries and the Oceans
the Guard coastal - - will of croisière to the first ministers
answers delayed to of the questions Oral
the economy
the Purchase of major companies by of the businesses U.S. - Position policy of the government
Élections Canada
the Manitoba - Position loss of data negotiates - - transfer of data personal - - principle of the consent - - procedures of security regarding the data personal
the trade international
the failure of the discussions to the Organization World of the trade - - grants agricultural of the States members - - assistance to the farmers Canadian
the heritage
the status of the Museum commemorative of the Holocaust
order DAY THE
the Act of implementation in implement of the Agreement on the Station spatiale international civil
third Reading - Suspended of the debate
the business of the Senate
the Summit of the Francophonie
inquiry - Adjourned of the debate
the bill of implementation in implement of the Agreement on the Station spatiale international civil
third Reading
bill of bill of 99 for the implementation in implement of conventions tax
third Reading - Adjourned of the debate
the speech of the Throne
motion of Adopted of the is in response
the speech of the Throne
the Adresse in response - Motion Honourable to the end of the debate the eighteenth day of Senate - Withdrawn of the section
the Act on the snitch in the service public
second Reading - adjournment of the debate
the Act on the Assent Royal
the Act on the Parliament of the Canada
bill of bill Amend - Second Reading - Continued of the debate
the Act on the Immigration
bill of bill Amend - Second Reading - Adjourned of the debate
the ascertain tabled pursuant to the Act on the transport to the Canada Motion of the discussions on a proposal of the sector private to the Purchase of a society air - Report of the Committee of the transport and of the Communications - Adjourned of the debate
Economy Economy , Budgets and Administration
Adopted of the second report of the Committee
the Estimates of the Estimates of 99 - 2000
Authorized to the Committee of the Finance national of study the Estimates of the Estimates
withdrawal of the motion of amendment
the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe
the Organization for the security and the cooperation in Europe - Position eighteenth session Annual of the Assembly Parliamentary held to St. - Petersbourg , in Russia - Inquiry
the Ontario
the Act on the restructuring regional - - refusal of the government summer of adopt the recommendation to to to of Ottawa a city bilingual - Inquiry - Adjourned of the debate
the Senate
motion of - of the procedure of Assent Royal - Maintien of the motion
the SENATE
the Tuesday 14 December 99
the Senate is met to 14 p.m. , the Speaker the to the Chair .
prayers .
the Late of the hon. R . James raise , . C .
tributes
the hon. John Lynch - Lynch ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , not more later that the week last , I me am talked with our colleague Jim raise , which the Late provide in the night of Sunday we has all affligés .
he was as he has was for any his life - a life would by more of a tragedy personal - , this is - to - say stoïque , energetic and , by - with all , honourable .
he is death to the on of a long illness , who has need of the treatment difficult and unhappy , without for as enter his will of live .
never I not the have heard the concern or even to of the warning of découragement , then even that he knew that all the interventions Medical the avéreraient outlive .
I it to of other , more competent that I , the be of to the he of his proceed career , as privacy that public .
this who me frappait in him , this were the hyphenate makes who were of him a esteemed colleague and friend .
assumption , he and committed , he was always prepared to sit when the vote was required , to the backs of obligations personal urgent , and always sorry when the illness the they of take on to the business of the House .
how of time him has be said of to from his health in Prime place and how of time not in has he nothing fact ?
still the year last , during a period of sclerosis , then that the cancer seemed have was beat , he has agreed with enthusiasm the Speaker of the under - Committee of the Affairs of the former Veterans , when the Senator Phillips has took his retirement .
he was that in this role , he could help to the improvement of the conditions of life of those and those who have served their homeland .
he has always late that the things the be through if crudely .
that this be to the caucus , to the House or to the within of a Committee , his interventions were always big with many of attention because his wisdom and his logical astonishes a sad particular to all debate .
being course , this is would the experience and the knowledge and know the apply judicieusement .
and in was - he of Jim , also well to the Parliament in as that member an that in him as faithful friend .
certainly , he there has someone prize to think that this deuil is shared by few - each , but that not reduced in nothing the perspective of our loss .
I offer my sincere sympathy to his family .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I by , with my colleagues , the would of the Senator Jim raise .
the Senator raise was a of my friends , as he the was for many of between you .
I have many appreciate Jim raise and the incredible experience which he has fact benefit this House in as that lawyer , man of Affairs , former member federal and Senator .
through to the experience , he was able of go to the heart of the problems and of to a enormous contribution to the good government of the Canada , this by the through of the Senate .
I not have not fact part of the under - Committee with him in this ability , but I have observers the Senator raise in the role of chairman of the under - Committee responsible of to the questions of the Defence national , including the role of - of the peace that plays the Canada in the world .
in 1993 , the Committee that he chaired has tabled in this place a report who meeting absolutely of the prescience .
he identifiait of the points who , if be the there was attacked then , have for of avoid a great number of the problems are the are heurtés our efforts of - of the peace these past years .
the Senator raise learned his family .
I the know because that we were friends , and to because of the many discussions that we have liberty during the illness of the wife and of other events familiaux , which some tragic .
the Senator raise , the good sense and his effect we will enormous .
I me join to the honourable senators for address to his family my very sincere sympathy .
the hon. Lowell Murray :
honourable senators , that fact 38 years that Jim raise and I are friends .
think to his life and to his death with to corners on the courage and the tolerance .
in 1958 , to the age of 30 years , Jim raise has lost the unique brother to the outcome of a long and douloureuse illness .
in 1990 , Jim and his woman Jane have lost their more young son of way tragic .
in 1994 , Jane is died of a long illness who the had strongly affaiblie .
in 1996 , Jim has received of his doctors a pronostic for his own death .
his family , though not épargnée by the malheurs , was very talentueuse and it has known a great success .
the father was member of the Court Supreme of the Saskatchewan . Jim has continued in a society of lawyers to Regina who was the behalf of the raise .
he is became man of Affairs and steering of business .
he was generous in his activities volunteers , then he has " a life public .
he has served 7 years to the House of the Commons and 20 years to the Senate .
far of the replier on him - even and not the apitoyant never on the fate , he has concentré any the attention on the duty and on his interests until to the the fairest .
when his friends the Australian of his health , he was evidence of a great her and of a réalisme total .
then he orientait the conversation to the questions who entirely the spirit to this time - that .
during of a conversation that I have had recently with him , these questions were the of of the settlements military of the Canada , the allow of the Saskatchewan deals , the Museum of the War to Ottawa and , well heard , the prospects of the Party Conservative federal .
he supportait all his problems of way décontractée and aside all his responsibilities with a seriously and a integrity copies .
this was a man hon. , and the example of his life and of his death is a heritage which can be proud his family , his friends and his colleagues .
the hon. A . Raynell Andreychuk :
honourable senators , I like I also address my sympathy to the family of the Senator raise .
when I am arrived to Regina in 1976 for with my as of Justice , I knew already the family raise .
be not can the expressed in Regina without let on a point of interest which this family has of the behalf or left his in .
I have known the Senator raise indirectly to from of his good accomplishments .
in the profession , Jim raise was a man should .
always well prepared .
he their said not only how deal the case , but he their expliquait the importance of to of the questions more broader , of the questions more deep and the aspects moral of any case which the courts were before .
he had a respect for the bill who not the and not in many in the province .
the Senator raise was also known for his actions political in Saskatchewan . Integrity my on , after the have met , I me told how he had could to of the relates - to - relates , because he not had certainly not the president and the exubérance that be associate often to the members of the class policy .
yet , when I have began to know Regina , a city who not was not the my , I have including that the commitment effacing to virtually all the questions importait to the people of his city and of his province .
he people a way of to know the point of view on a question and he anyone a solution avantageuse for the community .
I not think not that he there has a question which he not the be not served quiet .
he not was never the Speaker or the as the more in view , but he was always in coulisse to give of the advice .
he has fact evidence of the type of leadership who is the in of a man of state and not simply of a policy .
with him , the two were seldom .
the Senator raise had many of influence in the city of Regina .
he can be difficult of work in a more small community when be has need of many of money and that be must with of great problems .
that still , he relay quiet to of many services community .
and , he from a community more broad , those who not have normally not was associated to the Senator raise and that we not have not what here .
those of between we who come of Regina can the to in of many services community for speak to the people and the apercevoir that , that still , in scenes , the Senator raise was in so that the fate of the citizens means of Regina be a little better .
the Senator raise we will , but the implement perdurera .
of many people to Regina were to the aware of his illness and guide secrètement that he the in off still a time .
however , we are many to have including that the end was it when he is River among the space for do of the research on the origins of his family in Saskatchewan , with the discretion that we him was .
we know that he not was already more the even man , then that until - that he was always turned to the future , and many of his friends have including that he the préparait to the inexorable .
honourable senators , we not oublierons not Jim raise and I hope that his family will of the solace in the implement .
the hon. David Tkachuk :
honourable senators , I like take the speak I also to the on of the Late of the late Jim raise .
he we so of the things when be is appointed to the Senate .
he we is including of of meet of the people which we have heard speak , and Jim raise was the a of these people .
Jim has accomplished this that we are oversight of call in Saskatchewan a real achievement policy - to know that he has won for the Party Conservative a seat to Regina .
for those among the honourable senators who not are by Regina , that they know that when the steering of campaign him has asked , during of the campaign election of 1958 , this that he understandable of to for make to well this campaign to Regina , John Diefenbaker had answered : " Faites ; the city ! "
in the as political , we are oversight of call this city the " place Red " .
all the gauchistes of the Saskatchewan the find to Regina .
Jim raise has fact someone something that little of Conservatives have succeeded .
when the public of Regina him has " the victory in this election , it has shown any the believe that it him was .
this victory has drew on him the attention Mr. Clark , who the has appointed to the Senate in 1979 .
I not knew not very well Jim , well that I one heard speak of him .
the a of the good things who me be touring is that I have could better the appreciate in the richer to the within of the caucus .
I admire the integrity and the honesty .
honourable senators , I will would a something that I have observed for my six years of presence to the caucus and this is that Jim raise knew in come to the fact .
this was a man who not spoke not many , but his interventions arrivaient always to point appointed and his advice were of the more prisés by all .
they me will many .
, the behalf of the members of my family and of all the people of my city , I can say that Jim has many fact for our province .
he has always fact evidence of good sense and he we will many .
I greetings therefore our more sincere sympathy and sympathy to his family .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I you ask of well would you rise and you join to I for having a time of silence to the memory of our colleague and friend who , the Senator James raise .
( the senators observent a minute of silence . )
' ' '
the Manitoba
the First nation of Cross Lake - - rate of suicide high
the hon. Sharon Carstairs :
honourable senators , I like to to the attention of the Senate the conditions tragic in which live the members of the First nation of Cross Lake , a contingency stretch in the part North of the Manitoba , to the south of Thompson .
honourable senators , to the over of the five the months , seven people of this community of driving souls the are from the life .
cent other have tried of the to to the over of the even period .
these statistics are effarantes and be not can the to of the ignore .
he there has of other aspects startling to this history .
of way general , the initiatives of fight against the suicide in the communities is primarily the young men because that they have always set the group the more to risk .
however , in the First nation of Cross Lake , the majority of the people to tried of the those the life were seniors of 20 to 30 years and he there had as of men that of women .
the more young to have tried of the Latimer in the the months was age of nine years .
he is difficult for I of understand the despair who could own a young of nine years to would the from a passing in the head .
he is also difficult of imagine the even despair in a great - mother of 59 years .
honourable senators , be not can the to of from this crisis under silence .
, the end of September , be has ' on at a service telephone of emergency telephone Standing .
I not can that assume that this service has for of reduce the number of suicides .
however , the budget of 15 . $ who there has was " will soon exhausted .
we must we ensure that this service can be on of the funds additional for power continue to operate .
many more important still , honourable senators , we must correct the problems systémiques who , in this community , are these results horribles .
the New - Brunswick
a bill of bill of initiative Parliamentary has was presented to the legislature legislative by the member Conservative Eric MacKenzie to that the be commémore each year the Holocaust .
when the legislature legislative approuvera the bill of bill this week , the province of the New - Brunswick , of where I just , will the third province of the Canada to designate a day where we we souviendrons of the atrocities which the humanity is able , the assassinat systematic of million of men , of women and of children , by example , and where we we rappellerons of the thousands of soldiers , men and women , who have fought addition - sea for reversed the equipment to killing of the Third Reich and been the camps of the death .
the Prime day of commémoration of the Holocaust to the New - Brunswick will the 2 May 2000 .
the province of the Ontario has adopted a legislation legislative similar the year last and the government of the Island - Edward - Prince - Edward has adopted a bill to on the Day of commémoration of the Holocaust the week last .
, all these provinces , I say " thank " .
, the time of the Tabled of the legislation legislative , Mr. MacKenzie has said :
, the end of the century the more their in the history of the humanity , we share the obligation to the enter of the new millennium of remind the history and of in from of the lessons .
as the has wrote George Santayana :
those who not can the remind the past are burdened to the repeat .
he understandable well that this motion be introduced the 9 December the of that the community international performs to this date two important ragged in s of rights of the human .
the 9 December in the 51e anniversary of the Adopted of the Convention of the Nations Nations for the prevention of the crime of genocide , who fact of the genocide a offence to the right international , and the 10 December marquele 51e anniversary of the proclamation of the Declaration Universal of the rights of the man .
I am proud of this new legislation legislative of the government Rifles who remind a of the more choquantes abuses of the rights of the human .
the remember of the Holocaust should provide the outlawing necessary to a Opposition active to the racism and to the haine .
we not have that to feuilleter each day the newspapers for take knowledge of actions evil who are upon the side says of the existence human .
honourable senators , the of that the time fact nothing the survivors , he we responsibility of speak of the lessons of the Holocaust in quality of parliamentarians , of leaders of the community and also of members of the race human .
if I can me to a small time of mired , honourable senators , you will that the three provinces who have 264 a Day of commémoration of the Holocaust are directed by the Party Progressive - Conservative .
I hope that the government federal emboîtera soon the not and will of the Day of commémoration of the Holocaust a day national of recueillement .
the Games Olympics special
Ottawa - - Games of Winter of the year 2000
the hon. Janis Johnson :
honourable senators , I wish to you attention today today a event important , because we ajournerons probably this week .
I the am to as of member of the Foundation of the Games Olympics special of the Canada and of volunteer of long date .
the event which I about will five days , to be du25 January 2000 , when the city of Ottawa and the region of the capital national will the host of the Games Olympics special of Winter Canadian .
someone higher athletes and 200 entraîneurs will of across to the Canada for participate to these games .
someone higher parents and 1 200 volunteers will also support the athletes .
the Games Olympics special the are already held a time to Ottawa , in 1981 , when we have was the games of was .
this time - this , he the Glenney well course of the sports of Winter .
we assisterons including to of the - of skiing alpin , of skating merit , of hauls and of raquette .
many of between we meetings a great believe to the because of the Games Olympics special , but all the world not knows not that these games are of the events sports of senior counting who , by their aspect " , could support the comparison with not any what warming athlétique .
this is this that wanted the Dr. Frank Hayden , of the University McMaster , who has spent his life to the because of the conditionnement physical .
you you rappellerez can - be the famous program of five million of conditionnement physical that he had ' to the point with the Bomber Royal Canadian .
the Dr. Hayden not partageait not the proposition generally widespread that the children déficients psychiatric , and more later the adults , were unable of participate to the sports and to the programs of leisure .
in soumettant a group of children to a program intense of conditionnement physical , the Dr. Hayden has demonstrated that the déficients psychiatric could who enough of Paralympians for the delivering to of the - athlétiques of level international .
he has then based the Games Olympics special .
the Games Olympics special the are held for the first time in 1968 to Soldier Field , to s , and these games rely now more of a million of meeting in 140 country .
these three benefits are still accrus by the appreciation and the support of a assembled .
I ask to all the honourable senators of try of attend to the a of the activities of the Games Olympics special to the over of the week of the 25 January .
they will very impressionnés by the determination and the héroïsme of our athletes .
I have attended to a great number of these activities , to the Canada and to the abroad .
, my notice , the Games Olympics special symbolisent the supplemented that can to the sport and the throughout of the body and of the spirit who just to force of determination , as in witnessing our athletes .
the oath of the Games Olympics special is very eloquent .
he is read to the beginning of each of the games by a athlete who allume then the flame Olympic .
the oath said this :
made that I earner , if , made that I am boldest in my efforts .
honourable senators , I hope you see to the games .
visitor of in
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I you attention the presence to our gallery of our colleague and friend recently retraitée , the hon. Senator Marian Maloney .
languages official
Presented of the second report ducomité Joint Standing
the hon. Rose - Marie Cool - Losier , co of the Committee Joint Standing of the languages official , its the report following :
the Tuesday 14 December 99
the Committee Joint Standing of the languages official has the honour of to the
second REPORT
the Committee Joint Standing of the languages official has adopted in Committee the 7 December 99 the resolution next :
he BE RESOLVED , - That the Committee Joint Standing of the languages official of the Senate and of the House of the Commons is of notice that the legislature legislative of the Ontario should establish by seaway legislative , that the city of Ottawa , capital of the Canada has two languages official , the English and the French .
respectfully submitted ,
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when consideration - we this report ?
( on the motion of the Senator Cool - Losier , the study of the report is placed to the order of the day of the next Senate . )
the Act of implementation in Bill of the Agreement on the Station spatiale international civil
report it of the Committee
the hon. Peter A . Stollery :
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate , I like to the version revised of the fifth report of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign , to on the bill of bill C - 4 , Act of implementation in Bill of the Agreement on the Station spatiale international civil .
for of the reasons technical , the comments who have should be included in our report , who was presented the jeudi9 December 99 , were omises by inadvertent .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the leave is - it granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Tuesday 14 December 99
the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign has the honour of to the
fifth REPORT RÉVISÉ
your Committee , which has was obedience the bill of bill C - 4 , Act to implementation in Bill of the Agreement an between the government of the Canada , the governments of States members of the Agency spatiale European , the government of the Japan , the government of the Federation of Russia and the government of States - United of America on the cooperation Current to the Station spatiale international civil and Dolly of the changes other to of other laws , has , pursuant to the order of referred of the 1 December 99 examined obedience bill of bill and in fact now report without amendment , but with the comments following :
the Committee would that two points precise be completed .
first , the Committee is cleansing interested to to has ) the regulations that the Governor in board believe necessary for the application of the its bill and for give effect to the Agreement and b ) the Code of conduct who each the chain of command being to the astronautes of the Argonauts spatiale .
the Committee , " of the scope missing of the clause regarding the notice of the Parliament , to the section 10 of the bill of bill C - 4 , ask that the government of the Canada , by the through of the Agency spatiale Canadian , him réfère the regulations and the Code of conduct directly , as that they will exclude , after have first was released in the Gazette of the Canada .
second , the paragraph 11 ( 2.34 )
not its not the expression " Canadian flight element " used in the version English of the ( 11 ( 2.31 )
b ) .
the government of the Canada , in the bill of bill of together who must be presented soon , should clarify the paragraph 11 ( 2.31 )
to of with the concerns of the Committee to this regard .
respectfully submitted ,
the adjournment
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the ( 58 ( 1 ) p.m. ) of the Rules , I move :
that , when the Senate adjourns today today , he remains adjourned until to tomorrow , the Wednesday 15 December 99 , to 13 p.m. 30 .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the leave is - it granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
bill of bill on the Agreement final nisga' has
first Reading
the Hon. the Speaker informed the Senate that he has received of the Commons a message with of the bill of bill C - 9 , Act to implementation in effect of the Agreement final nisga' has .
( the bill of bill is read a first time . )
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when read - we this bill of bill a second time ?
the hon. Jack Austin :
with the leave , to the next Senate of the Senate .
the Hon. the Speaker :
leave granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
not .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , usually , he must a notice of two days before of proceed to the debate to the step of the second Reading and , if I understand well , the leave of tributes this deadline not is not granted .
the second Reading of the bill of bill would therefore placed to the order of the day of the Senate of Thursday next .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the consent the refused , the second Reading of the bill of bill is placed to the order of the day of the Senate of the Thursday 16 December 99 .
the hon. Marcel homme man :
honourable senators , if such is the desire of the Senate , can - be could - we give the consent unanimous for in conclusion with this bill of bill who has was examined of a way if - to the other place ?
the Hon. the Speaker :
is - this of agreed , honourable senators , for that the second Reading of the bill of bill be placed to the order of the day of Thursday next , the 16 December 99 ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed and the second Reading of the bill of bill is placed to the order of the day of the Senate of the Thursday 16 December 99 . )
bill of bill of appropriation No. 2 for 99 - 2000
first Reading
the Hon. the Speaker announcement that he has received of the Commons a message with of the bill of bill C - 21 , Act to granting to Majesty Majesty of appropriation for the Administration public federal for the year the ending 31 March 2000 .
( the bill of bill is read a first time . )
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when read - we this bill of bill a second time ?
the delegation to the session Annual of 99 held to Amsterdam , to the Netherlands - Lower - Report of the report
the hon. Bill Rompkey :
honourable senators , I have the honour of table the third report of the Association Parliamentary Canada - NATO who represented the Canada to the 45e session Annual held to Amsterdam ( Netherlands - Lower ) , of the 11 to the 15 November 99 .
the recommendations of the Board Royal on the Peoples aboriginal regarding the service government aboriginal
notice of motion Motion the Committee of the Peoples aboriginal to until the date of Presented of the report final
the hon. Charlie Watt :
honourable senators , I give notice that Wednesday , the 15 December 99 , I move :
that , by derogation to the order adopted by the Senate 24 November 99 , the Committee Senate Standing of the Peoples aboriginal be authorized to to a study and to to a report on the recommendations of the Board Royal on the Peoples aboriginal ( Document Parliamentary No. 2 / 35 - 508 . )
relatively to the service government aboriginal and , more particularly , to obtain the point of view of the Peoples aboriginal and of the other it on the questions following :
2 . the mechanisms necessary to the ushered of the new relations structurelles ;
3 . the models of self government aboriginal necessary for answer to the needs of the Peoples aboriginal and for concorder with the new relations structurelles ;
that the Committee be authorized to table the report final to the more later the 16 February 2000 , and that the Committee divested the powers necessary to the Electronic of the results of the study contained in the report final , and this until au29 February 2000 ; and
that the Committee be authorized , notwithstanding the practices considered , to table the report with of the Clerk of the Senate , if the Senate not seat not , and that obedience report be being have was tabled to the Senate .
PERIOD PERIOD question
the Affairs Intergovernmental
the bill of bill on the or of the process referendum - - guideline of application
the hon. Pierre Claude Nolin :
honourable senators , the section 2 . ( 2 ) of the bill of bill on the or of the process referendum its the factors that the House of the Commons must consider for determine if a majority clear of Quebecers the are given for the Stinson of the Quebec .
you you rappellerez that during of the last referendum , 49,6p. per of the Quebecers the are given in favour of the sovereignty of the Quebec parent of a offer of partnership to the rest of the Canada .
50,4p. per of the Quebecers the are contrary to this option .
if be analysis of a little more close these percentages in service of the affiliation ethnic of the Quebecers , the data of Statistics Canada and the results by section of vote , be in so to the conclusion shared by to little close all the expert that 62p. per of the francophones the are given in favour of the option spectre and , to the opposed , perspective per of the English and 98p. per of the proportionate the are given against the option of the Party Quebec .
considering that the francophones are the majority of the public of the Quebec , that the vote of the English and of the proportionate is concentré only in some areas déterminées of the Quebec , the Minister can - he we say if , in case of a victory of the compound of the OUI of the indépendantistes - that I not research not of the all - the distribution ethnic and geographical of the vote will taken in consideration during of the review of the or of the majority of the constituents who the will given in favour of this option ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , he there has two followed to all that , as the Court Supreme the has well has .
the Prime , this is the or of the question , and the bill of bill is enough explicit to this about .
the second , this is the majority clear , and this is this which about the hon. Senator .
the court , in his deliberations and in his decision , has well took be of not not define in detail what factors would took in consideration before the vote .
the bill of bill about of some factors which he will to that .
the bill of bill not préjuge not of the circumstances and not described not specifically to what level he will where the limit , even if that has certainly should be trying to some times .
, this regard , the bill of bill is all to fact consistent to the decision of the Court Supreme .
the Senator Nolin :
honourable senators , this is the reason for which , in my preamble , I you have of the percentages .
no expert not has challenged that the majority desQuébécois francophones , 62p. per , have voted OUI to the question of the Party Quebec during of the referendum of 1995 .
, the opposed , perspective per of the English and 98p. per of the proportionate have voted NON .
your bill of bill not is - he not in are of give least of importance to the vote of the majority French that to , of the minority English and allophone ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , be not attempts not in the bill of bill of to more of importance to a part of the electorate in particular .
some conditions will examined to the time of the assessment of the quality of the majority .
some of these conditions are contained in the bill of bill , and of other not the are not .
that the ask by the fact that be not can be what considerations enhanced in line of that .
however , the bill of bill for clear a review public of all the factors .
the essential , this is that all the Quebecers , what that be their origin ethnic , must power the express clear , by a majority clear , and that this majority be the result of a question clear who their has was raised .
the Senator Nolin :
honourable senators , a majority clear not would - it not a majority of each of the bracket ethnic of the public of the Quebec ?
the Senator Finestone :
honourable senators , am - I a Canadian of second class ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I am , by principle , to determine to the advance the percentages precise for manner this question .
faithful to the notice of the Court Supreme , the bill of bill for that the be will to that of the circumstances existing to the time of a future referendum , this that will the Protagonists political to this time - that .
hope that that not what never .
however , that not is not the question .
I the as , the bill of bill not the precludes not of the principle of the notice of the Court Supreme , who for that , to the time timely , the Protagonists political will this who represents a majority enough .
the bill of bill states very specifically some of the factors which he will given that .
the hon. Jean - Claude Rivest :
honourable senators , in this who with the question of the unity national , I those to the Minister that that the history recent of the Canada , the only way effective of combat the séparatisme to the Quebec is for the government of the Canada of have a vision on the reports between the Quebec and the together of the society Canadian .
I am including as to the time of Lester B . Pearson or of Brian Mulroney , where the rate of symbolic to the séparatisme had falling of 20 to 25 per .
salaries , to the Quebec , he there has had two ways for the parties sovereignists or separatists of try of obtain the symbolic of the Quebecers to the idea of the independence : the seaway referendum for obtain a majority of OUI to the question and the plurality of representatives to the Assembly national to the over of a election , as the of 1966 with the RIN , and in 1970 and in 1973 with the Party Quebec of René Lévesque .
that this second option , the government spectre elected would by to a statement of sovereignty .
the present bill of bill of the government not with that of the seaway referendum .
that arriverait - he to the unity of the Canada if a party spectre to the Quebec became to the proposal of René Lévesque of the beginning of the years 70 , this is - to - say that the election of a government of the Party Quebec , who is a government clear spectre , impliquerait , on a simple majority of members to the Assembly national , the implementation in Bill of the separation of the rest of the Canada ?
the bill of bill not said nothing that - with .
for you to the uniqueness saugrenu of the intervention of the government federal in this debate , in this first proposition , the Party Quebec said that with the election of a government spectre and this mandate of the public , he Courts to the independence , as that the is fact in 1970 and in 1973 .
they not have not win , but this was their program .
that this proposition , the government federal adopterait - he a bill for determine the nature of the hang - form election of the Party Quebec for clarify the option on the sovereignty ?
you understand why the Position of the government Canadian not is not accepted by the together of the stakeholders to the Quebec and why it is saugrenue .
why the government Canadian not timely he not the opinion , as this is the right of the to ?
he is all to fact legitimate that he the it because that he is the wharfinger Prime of the unity national .
that he it to the Assembly national and , particularly to the Party Liberal of the Quebec , the relates - speak federalist on the territory Quebec , the be of to the battle on the or of the question and on the définiton of the majority .
that would of a way many more make the option federalist and the option of the unity Canadian .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , the question of the hon. Senator is enough complex , as by his length that by his nature .
the Prime Minister of the Quebec has said that he has the intention of to a other referendum when the conditions winners will up .
he is obvious that , in as that citizens responsible and that government federal responsible , we must answer to this statement .
this that the government move is simple and obvious .
he we responsibility of take the Prime Minister of the Quebec to the word .
the he with a other referendum , we must we ensure that he with a question clear and that he understands well that he must obtain a majority clear before of power act .
I not see not how anyone to the Quebec or , to the Canada could the against to that .
the Prime Minister of the Quebec not has he not the intention of for a question clear ?
has he the intention of act other ?
what is the objection to the fair ?
if I me recall well , the Prime Minister of the Quebec has praising this decision .
a of the elements basic of this decision is that the public of the Canada and the government of the Canada have a role to play .
personally , I détesterais see the government the from to the role .
the Senator Rivest :
honourable senators , the Minister me as that the government Canadian has decided of act to this time - this because that the Prime Minister of the Quebec has said would to a referendum .
why the very hon. Pierre Elliott Trudeau , after have heard René Lévesque say , to the next of the election in 1976 , that he would to a referendum on the sovereignty , not has he not decided of to , him who was wharfinger of the unity national , a bill of bill for determine the benchmarks of the question and of the majority ?
the very hon. Pierre Elliott Trudeau not was - he not also intending of the unity Canadian and of the protection of the interests of the together of the Canadians that the present Prime Minister of the Canada ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , the Prime Minister Trudeau the concern enormous of the unity Canadian .
however , we is in a situation where , apparently with the approval of the Prime Minister of the Quebec and certainly of the counterpart of the Canada , the Court Supreme has éclairci this question as never that not the is fact in our history .
we not had not such decision the last time ; we the have now .
if I me recall well , this is a decision who has received the support of the Prime Minister of the Quebec .
in his decision , the Court Supreme has established some criteria very age .
it give and to the government federal a opportunity reasonable of place these questions in a perspective clear , then that we not we ourselves not in full battle referendum .
in large , the government underscored on two points simple , but basic .
if a province whatever , and not only the Quebec , to the from of the Canada , he him must for a question clear to his public and obtain a response clear .
that is true , that he the whether of the Alberta , of the British - British or of the Nova - Nova and , certainly , nothing not cannot be more reasonable .
however , the government federal not is not given of act if these conditions not are not respected .
the Senator Rivest :
honourable senators , I have a question Supplementary to for .
the Minister could - he we quote the a of the judgment of the Court Supreme of the Canada who ask to the Parliament Canadian of legislation ?
is - this that the judgment of the Court Supreme of the Canada , who said this that the Minister just of say , and I in as so , has force of bill to the Canada ?
and why not not let Jean Charest and the Party Liberal of the Quebec delivering this battle and remind to the government of the Quebec in place that :
the bill of the country is stated in the decision of the Court Supreme of the Canada .
we not have not need of the bill of bill Mr. Dion .
the Senator Boudreau :
this is that a argument different , honourable senators .
if a human said that we not in have not need or that the time chosen for the to not is not , it it then clear hear that he not there has not of disagreement .
the Court Supreme has indicated very clear that he there has of the factors which he must to that .
I me would a happy of back a copy of the decision of the Court Supreme to the hon. Senator .
the Senator Ghitter :
répondez to the question !
the Senator Boudreau :
this bill of bill is that the two parties have of the responsibilities .
the government of the Canada has clear tenure his responsibility with the bill of bill .
the government federal has fact know his Position to the public of the country of a way very reasonable and has indicated the factors which he the would for determine if the conditions for in the decision of the Court Supreme are respected .
these factors would very useful for all citizen of not any what province Canadian who would to take a decision clear , if be him ask of the take in the future .
the Court Supreme
the terminologie regarding the decision on the referred relatif to the referendum
the hon. ë A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , to the over of the brief series of questions who has was raised until to now to this about , I have indeed that the Leader of the government to the Senate has used 10 time the word " decision " in about of the notice of by the Court Supreme of the Canada .
, my notice , if we must deal of a question of a importance also crucial , we must be very cautiously and very precise in the way which we employons the words .
the Minister not is - he not that the referred presented by the government of the Canada to the Court Supreme sollicitait not not a decision , but rather a notice ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , as the said the hon. Senator , he the was of a referred and the Court Supreme of the Canada has of a notice , I in as .
this is a notice who has was well was to the time by the Prime Minister of the Quebec .
the transport
the Nova - Nova - - commitment of the government federal of expand to four Ways the road EH
the hon. J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , I like know when we will obtain these helicopters .
I like also know where the Minister of the Transport and the chairman of Onex are today today .
however , I thought that the Minister disorderly a small better the question next .
as the Minister the knows , he seems there have a some confusion in this who with the commitments federal relatively to the assistance to to to the Nova - Nova for the Families to four Ways of the road EH who facing the Valley of the Annapolis .
the Minister could - he make to the Senate what commitment has was took to the regard of our province to this regard ?
the he not has not a response immediate , he would can - be prepared to we would a response written the more earlier possible .
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I will certainly whether with of the Minister of the Transport for know where in are the things .
I have attended recently to a meeting where this about has was issue by the Minister and , except mistake , a Parliamentary of the other place who represents the region in question .
as the hon. Senator the knows by experience , the choice of the bills motor is of the jurisdiction provincial .
the government provincial submit the priorities then ask the appropriation federal .
the government federal funding in part these highways in service of the list of priorities established by the government provincial .
I believe that the Minister has indicated that he étudierait can - be a possible ask from of the government provincial .
in fact , some provisions special can be taken .
however , to my knowledge , no ask of this such not has was passed until to now .
I am this with under any contingency , because I not have not spoke to the Minister of that since a week and half .
the Finance
the distribution of appropriation to the as of the Plan of Pension of the Canada in case of federalist of the wedding
the hon. Donald H . Oliver :
honourable senators , my question the is to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
a only of these five questions has never was having in the release of press of the government and this was the decision of continue of be of the means of the ensure that the appropriation to the as of the CPP are divided to the on of the federalist of the wedding , as the bill the for .
too often , that not the product not , even if this is required to the words of the bill .
be we said that the governments federal and provincial trying still of with this question .
nothing not has changed to the over of the two past years .
the Leader of the government could - he say to the Senate if the expression " to the possibilitéx is a way élégante of say " can - be that yes , can - be that not " ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I not know not in what legislation the government and , more particularly , the Minister of the Finance , examine this question .
however , I be very happy of me information and of provide a response to the Senator .
the Senator Oliver :
I thank the Leader of the government .
honourable senators , as the Minister the knows , the most of the may live their past years in the poverty , after be demeurées to the - for that their husband was on the market of the work , and they not receive no pension .
the Leader of the government could - he we provide of the information on two other points ?
first , could - he say to the Senate what is the of exactly of the business exploratoires and of the bill pilot requires ?
second , could - he we say why , two years more later , this problem not has always not was has , particularly for the women who have worked to the - , and not to the outside ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I would delighted of add these other requests of information .
the health
the possible of a regulation regarding the adding of caffeine to the drinks
the hon. Mira Spivak :
honourable senators , a series of sections articles in The Ottawa Citizen are of of a matter on the caffeine who is now to the study to Health Canada .
he the is of to or not to the manufacturers of drinks Drinks of add of the caffeine to of the drinks such that prisoner Dew .
this spring , the Senate has adopted to the unanimously a motion to this regard , and this series of sections raises of new questions .
I like in raise few - few .
first , the Leader of the government to the Senate can - he would if , yes or not , the government keeping the motion of the Senate in not amend not the regulatory current who banned the adding of caffeine to the drinks Drinks of agrumes as that be not is not course that the health of the Canadians , including the children and the young , not in commit not ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I thank the hon. Senator of his question .
, my knowledge , he not is not question in this time of amend the policy government to this regard , but I will me enquérir with of the Minister of the Health to of be to day in this matter .
the ask of a study on the effects of the caffeine
the hon. Mira Spivak :
honourable senators , a report bill to the Minister , but we him have wrote a sure number of letters , in the sillage of this resolution , the enjoignant of not nothing to , of the " of say not .
that the sections in question , of the senior officials of Health Canada have said that they not have not of figures on the amount of caffeine that the Canadians ingèrent already in consommant of the drinks Drinks , of the chocolat , of the tea and of the thé - of all sources .
they say not have more that two opportunities .
they can the proud to the data that their served the industry or develop the worse scenario .
I think that he there in has a third .
they can ask to Statistics Canada of their provide of the data of basic .
the hon. Minister could - he ask to the Minister of the Health of such the testimony of a source impartiale for determine if the health of the Canadians will compromised or not ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I not know not to the fair if the hon. Senator ask that the prerequisite is on the documented of Statistics Canada .
the Senator Spivak :
yes , to of establish the data of basic .
the Senator Boudreau :
in fact , I believe that be is in are of define the information to ask .
I not know not to the fair where in are these business , but I will me information .
I will would the ask of the hon. Senator .
the Senator Spivak :
thank .
the behind in the publication of the report scientific
the hon. Mira Spivak :
honourable senators , for more of precision , I attention that that a notice already which in Position Gazette of the Canada , the proposal of Pepsi - Cola would which , but this notice add audacieusement that no study not has was made and that the objective Main is to harmonize prisoner Dew , by example , to the formula American .
as be the knows , a canette of prisoner Dew contains more of caffeine that several tasses of tea .
after have played to the hockey , the young , there including my grandchildren - children , not see nothing of difficulty to take a boisson for sports such that prisoner Dew .
we will now their serve of good approaching of caffeine .
the caffeine is a psychotrope and should be étiquetée in as that drug .
of any way , the report of the Committee of scientific who does to the Minister was , except mistake , be debated in July last .
the hon. Minister could - he whether why , if this report was be debated in July , he not has not still was record public ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
I be happy of me information on this other about to the behalf of the hon. Senator .
for this who is of the further of his question , he must always establish a balance between the degree of regulatory of the activity human by the government and the freedom of choice .
I acknowledge the legitimacy of the concern of the hon. Senator , but I not think not that we are on the point of legislation to of - to the miners the access to the Tim Horton .
the Senator Spivak :
honourable senators , I not can let from this note without answer .
we not are not in are of adopt a legislation legislative .
we me of protect our young children against the adding of a drug psychotrope to a product that they breakfast .
he there has several other things as that .
he not the is not of a regulation ; he the is of prevention in the interest of the health of the young children .
he not must not pin the two .
the Senator Boudreau :
I understand the point raised by the Senator .
however , as I the have has , he there has a fair balance to to .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , before of give the speak to the Senator Kinsella , I like out that this will the last question permise to the over of this period of questions .
the fisheries and the Oceans
the Guard coastal - - will of croisière to the first ministers
the hon. ë A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , the was last , the shore Humphrey Gilbert of the Guard coastal of the Canada has him the Prime Minister Tobin and the members of the cabinet in croisière the long of the coasts of Newfoundland - Newfoundland .
, as of Minister policy of the Nova - Nova , the Minister is - he prepared to to of the arrangements of this such for the Prime Minister Hamm and his colleagues to the over of the was next ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , not only will - I refuse the ask of the Senator , but I wish to him ensure personally that I not take never this such of initiative .
answers delayed to of the questions Oral
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I have a response to the question raised to the Senate the 24 November 99 by the Senator Oliver regarding the Purchase of major companies by of the businesses U.S. , a response to the questions raised to the Senate the 30 November 99 by the senators Spivak and Andreychuk regarding the Manitoba , the loss of data negotiates , the transfer of data personal and the principle of the consent for the security of the data personal , a response to a question raised to the Senate the 6 December 99 by the Senator Andreychuk regarding the failure of the discussions to the Organization World of the trade on the question of the grants agricultural of the States members and the assistance to the farmers Canadian , and finally a response to a question raised to the Senate the 8 December 99 by the Senator Kenny regarding the status of the Museum commemorative of the Holocaust .
the economy
the Purchase of major companies by of the businesses U.S. - Position policy of the government
( response to the question raised by the Donald H . Oliver the 24 November 99 )
certainly , the out of businesses Canadian by of the foreign have took of the magnitude these the time , but he would to the phenomenon to more long term .
the investment direct Canadian to the abroad the are accrus more that the investment foreign to the Canada for the years 90 , to the point that , today today , the Canadians have more of investment direct to the abroad that the foreign not in have to the Canada .
the rate of change is a of the many factors who changes the foreign to invest to the Canada .
in fact , the increase recent of the out of businesses Canadian by of the foreign has coïncidé with a raffermissement of the dollar Canadian .
in end of that , in a world where the be the fact competition for mobilizing of the $ of Investment , the Investment direct abroad to the Canada is a in of confidence in our economy .
the investment direct
Canadian to the abroad
the investment foreign
direct to the Canada
billion of $
billion of $
98T1
8,1
7,8
98T2
6.3
Independence
98T3
14,9
8,3
98T4
10,2
meagre
99T1
4,5
point
Élections Canada
the Manitoba - Position loss of data negotiates - - transfer of data personal - - principle of the consent - - procedures of security regarding the data personal
( response to the questions raised by the hon. Mira Spivak and the hon. A . Raynell Andreychuk the 30 November 99 )
the government the is committed to protect the information personal and , more particularly , to the ensure that the information their to the people be only used and ever in Conformity with the bill .
Élections Canada sharing this commitment .
for take the records of the constituents , Élections Canada has asked the notice of good number of expert , which those of the Commissariat to the protection of the life privacy of the Canada .
the held of the list election does of the information that Élections Canada receives of the government federal and of the governments provincial and territorial .
the sources government federal ( to know Revenue Canada and Citizenship and Immigration Canada ) not transmettent of information personal that with the consent of the it .
for obtain this consent , Revenue Canada has provided , in the documented of statement of the income , a recommendations in which be as that the be agreed to this that some information ( behalf , is , date of birth ) be releases to Élections Canada .
the new Canadians can would of the even way in their ask of citizenship that they consent to the transfer of some information personal to Élections Canada .
Élections Canada has also an with the sources government provincial and land ( by example , the offices of the vehicle under and the offices of the of Civil ) of the agreements with the sending of information necessary to the implementation to day of the records of the constituents .
these agreements sending on the proposition that the provider is authorized to would this such of information .
the question of the consent is therefore determined by the laws in effect in the provinces and territories .
the bill for that the information sent to Élections Canada not can be used that to of the for electoral .
to of protect the information found in the records of the constituents , Élections Canada has , as the creation of the records of the constituents , ' in place of the systems of monitoring complex ( by of the préposés or by of the means technical ) , and namely of the procedures well documentées of treatment of the data .
by on of the loss of the a enclosing the information obtenue relatively to the semiconductors manitobains , Élections Canada has responsible a company of security independent of whether all the aspects of his procedures in s of transfer on a magnétique .
the Commissioner to the protection of the life privacy of the Canada , Mr. Bruce Phillips , has borne his own inquiry .
he the is said of agreed on the findings of the audit .
" after study of the circumstances on this incident , he not fact no doubt that the loss of the a is the result of a simple mistake human , has écritM. Phillips .
I am sure that Élections Canada has took various measures for avoid a situation similar to the future , and I not believe not that he whatsoever forward of the recommendations further for the moment . "
he is important of note that the Commissioner to the protection of the life privacy and that the different sources appelées to help to the implementation to day of the records of the constituents are habilitées in all time to ask a review to to the ensure that the provisions for the raising , the emmagasinage , the actualisation and the use of the data delivered to Élections Canada respect well the right to the life privacy of the constituents .
the trade international
the failure of the discussions to the Organization World of the trade - - grants agricultural of the States members - - assistance to the farmers Canadian
( response to the question raised by the hon. A . Raynell Andreychuk the 6 December 99 )
the government of the Canada is determined to s a system of handling and of transportation of the grain more strong and more effective and to increase the responsibility to the producers , who must also in benefit more .
the objective that the government the is set is of ensure to this that the producers benefit of the changes Regional to the system of handling and of transportation in response to the recommendations of the Justice Estey and to the proposals Mr. Arthur Kroeger .
he any of out that the government of the Canada has always supported , all to the long of this process , that a attention particular was be granted to the need of to benefit the producers of the benefits of a system more commercial and more competitive .
the Minister of the Transport , the hon. David Collenette , has received the reports of the stakeholders and the recommendations Mr. Kroeger in September last .
the Minister of the Transport , of our with the Minister responsible of the Board Canadian of the Wheat and the Minister of the Agriculture and of the Agroalimentaire , has by of to these reports in view of determine the better way of implanter a system of uniqueness more commercial .
the government will carefully the report of the stakeholders and the recommendations Mr. Kroeger , of even that the results of the business on the questions related to the ports , to the distribution of the them - trémies and to the one of the highways before of proceed to the implementation in implement of a together of reforms .
the heritage
the status of the Museum commemorative of the Holocaust
( response to the question raised by the hon. Colin Kennyle 8 December 99 )
the government is aware that to the enter of a new millennium , the Canadians and the may must be on on the crimes made against the humanity , as the Holocaust , and understand the lessons of the past .
or the government , or the Department of the Heritage Canadian , not the are " to create a Museum of the Holocaust .
on to the discussions regarding the needs in local of the Museum Canadian of the War , of the officials of the Department of the Heritage Canadian have asked , to the behalf of the Minister , to the Museum Canadian of the Civilization , of make of the consultation to of determine the better way of writings the Holocaust and the other génocides .
however , the for of these consultation not has not was established .
well that the government from the importance of to know the crimes tragic made against the humanity to the 20 century , the role in the commémoration national of the Holocaust and of the other génocides not has not was determined .
order DAY THE
the Act of implementation in implement of the Agreement on the Station spatiale international civil
third Reading - Suspended of the debate
the Hon. the Speaker :
pleasure - he to the senators of adopt the motion ?
the hon. Jerahmiel S . Grafstein :
honourable senators , to first view , the bill of bill C - 4 is a bill of bill inoffensif , délicieux even , who deserves the support from of the two parties represented to the Senate .
this is a legislation who is to to in implement the agreements international that the Canada has conclude on the cooperation Current to the Argonauts spatiale .
all the world not can therefore that support the principle basic of the bill of bill .
, - this has was adopted prestement to the other place after several p.m. of debate and a review by the Committee of the House of the Commons .
I support I also the principle of the bill of bill .
however , God or the devil knows this that we reserving the details .
I have looked a the of i on the bill of bill a first time when he has was submitted to a review quick of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign .
before the hearings of the Committee , I have asked to the senior officials of the government why he was necessary of have the approval of the Parliament then that the improvements international could be with in implement on the only approval of the cabinet .
why ?
because that the agreed for that the States members suitable that their legislation criminal the étende to the Argonauts spatiale and to the prohibit to Entry and in from of the Argonauts spatiale .
honourable senators , I me réfère therefore to the section 11 of the bill of bill who amend the Code criminal and to the section 22 of the Agreement for excellent the ramifications of this application extraterritorial of our bill .
I have discovered that the States members incluaient the Union European , the States - United , the Canada , the Japan and the Russia , and that the laws pénales of each of these States the apply .
the honourable senators the will of the amendments that I had proposed to the bill of bill C - 40 , the Act on the extradition , seconded by my colleague the Senator Joyal , to of ôter to the Minister of the Justice the power capability in the case of the requests of extradition from of States where the accused could be court to the only of death .
the only capital has was - to the Canada he there has close of three decades .
after a debate in good and properly form , these amendments had was has to the Senate .
the honourable senators the will that the senators of this side - this of the House had followed the consignes of the whip of the Party .
the bill of bill C - 4 ressuscite the same questions who had fact the subject of the amendments has in the case of the bill Bill C - 40 .
the Minister of the Justice Access the power capability of decide or not of obtain of the guarantees of a state not to not will the only capital who ask the extradition , by example , of a Canadian continued for murder .
I have fact out the Position ingrate in which is ' the Minister of the Justice who must decide of a question of life or of death then that the bill Canadian is clear - more no condemnation to the only capital .
this power divide the applies now to the space atmosphérique with the bill of bill C - 4 .
do a presumption .
suppose that a Canadian is accused of have made a murder in the Argonauts spatiale .
a declaration is also accused of have made a murder in the Argonauts spatiale .
the Canada and all the country members of the Union European have will the only capital .
the Argonauts spatiale has was lancée to from of the Texas , a state where the only capital not has not was - .
the declaration not could not be extradé to the Texas , to least that this state not give to the country member of the Union European in question the guarantee that the only capital not will not implemented .
in advances , our Minister of the Justice would the power capability of decide or not of extrader the Canadian with or without guarantee that the only of death not will not implemented .
honourable senators , the Court Supreme has was back of this question by the through of the because Rafay and Burns which we have spoke during our debate on the bill of bill C - 40 .
in this case , the Minister of the Justice was prepared to extrader to the Texas two young Canadians of 18 years charged of crimes punissables of death without have the insurance that the only of death not would not implemented in their case .
that was contrary to the section 7 of the Charter of the rights I believe and some judges of the Court of call of the British - British were also of this notice .
the because fact now the subject of a call before the Court Supreme of the Canada who the has heard the 5 October 99 .
the week last , to the Committee of the Affairs foreign , of the officials we have said that , by a order enough unusual , the Court Supreme has asked of hear to new the plaidoiries .
by therefore , the question raised in the amendment that the Senate had wanted to remove to the bill of bill C - 40 , and who has was rejected to the Senate , is still to the study to the Court Supreme of the Canada , though in the context of the facts close of this because in particular .
is why I me am abstention of participate to the study section by section to the Committee and is also why I have the intention of not not participate to the study to the step of the report and to the third Reading .
why the alone to the place of to a other amendment ?
the officials we have said that the government has the intention of to the amendments appropriate if the Court Supreme wants of limit the discretion of the Minister .
the Court Supreme should we enlighten very soon .
if the government is still pressé of act to this time that , I me commitment officially to its this legislation legislative if strange and if incohérente when the Court Supreme of the Canada the will order .
I me abstiens and I am the decision of the Court Supreme ; I hope that the government Glenney with haste for withdraw to the Minister of the Justice this discretion all to fact anachronique and unfair .
the hon. Serge Joyal :
honourable senators , the bill of bill C - 4 , Act of implementation in implement of the Agreement on the Station spatiale international civil , me concern to the more senior point .
I am grateful to the Senator Grafstein of have were this question to my attention then that I participais to the study of the bill Bill S - 10 to the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional .
the provisions for to the section 11 of the bill Bill C - 4 create of the respond on the power of the Minister of the Justice of Authorize the extradition of Criminal Canadian to of the States where the only of death is is of be on .
the section 11 of this bill of bill amend the section 7 of the Code criminal by the adding of new provisions to for effect of expand the application of the Code criminal to the Argonauts spatiale international .
the new paragraph ( 2.31 )
Edward Code criminal specific this who following :
he in result that the jurisdiction criminal of the Canada the over now to the new Argonauts spatiale international .
in addition , it the ) in cooperation with 14 other country in the framework of the agreed international for the Argonauts spatiale .
by therefore , the 14 other States participating will of the provisions similar in their right pénal .
the section 11 of the bill of bill C - 4 raises specifically the even question of further that the paragraph 42 ( 2 ) of the bill of bill C - 40 presented during of the last session , to know the power capability of the Minister of the Justice of order the extradition that where the only of death is being .
that still , the people extradées of the Canada not benefit of no protection against the only of death .
as you you in recall , I have statement the principles basic under - revealed to my Position on the question essential of the only of death to the spring last , when the Senate has examined the bill of bill C - 40 , the bill on the extradition .
during the debate on the third Reading of this bill of bill , I have seconded a amendment proposed by the Senator Grafstein who would required that the Minister of the Justice be a promise of the state requérant as to the fact that the only of death not would not infligée or that , if it the was , it not would not implementation to enforcement .
the only of death would rather changée in only of other to life order without possible of should Earl .
he is , that I , totally incorrect and contrary to the clause of the section 7 of the Charter Canadian of the rights and freedoms of let the life or the death of a Canadian to the discretion of a Minister of the Crown .
these questions important are now the about of the case Rafay and Burns , who has was heard this year to the Court Supreme of the Canada .
this case , as you you in recall , has with to the decision of the hon. Allan Rock , P , Motion the extradition of two citizens Canadian of 18 years to a state of the States - United where they are inculpés of murder and where they encourent the only of death .
in formulant his decision , Mr. Rock not has not them to the ensure that the part poursuivante in this state not requérrait not the only of death .
the decision of laCour Supreme not has not still was made , but the burgeoning judges have ordered that the case be of new entenduele 25 October 99 .
in the testimony that he has fact the Tuesday 7 December 99 before the Committee of the Affairs foreign , Mr. Yvan Roy , lawyer General of the 110 of the policy in s of right pénal to the Department of the Justice , has explained that the power of a Minister of the Justice of Authorize the extradition continue of be a power capability full and without being and that he not is not atténué by the bill of bill C - 4 .
is this that has adjust Roy :
... the Minister of the Justice , who is responsible of the application of the Act on the extradition , can refuse of take a ascertain of been when the conduct to the regard of which be has presented the ask of extradition fact the subject of from criminal to the Canada intentées against this human .
Mr. . Roy has also recognized that the judgment record in the case Burns and Rafay duplication can - be the Minister to such of the assurance before of Authorize the extradition in of such case .
is this that he has said :
Mr. the chairman , you know that the Court Supreme of the Canada is currently back of the question in the framework of the case Burns and Rafay .
he the can very well that be will point a other section of this legislation legislative , that given of this that the Court Supreme of the Canada will to say if the only of death could be on in the country abroad .
of after the bill current , a such obligation not there not , but that become can - be the bill , of after this that each this judgment .
honourable senators , the of these circumstances , and that given of the principles that I have already , the spring last , presentations in detail in the that record of the Senate on the question of the only of death , I not then , in any good conscience , vote in favour of the section 11 of the bill of bill C - 4 , who give effect to the agreed regarding the juridiction criminal shared on the Station spatiale international civil .
by therefore , I wish to to know officially that I have the intention of me alone of vote when the motion of third Reading of the bill of bill C - 4 will implementation to the Senators .
the hon. Lucie pin :
honourable senators , I give notice that I me refrain of vote on the bill of bill C - 4 , for the same reasons that those who have was data by the honourable senators Grafstein and Joyal .
the hon. A . Raynell Andreychuk :
honourable senators , I not me bothersome not in this discussion raised by the senators Grafstein and Joyal .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I like ask your indulgence .
I note that he is 15 p.m. 29 , and we have agreed of to to this time - this to the notice of inquiry of the Senator Gauthier to that he can take the speak for 15 minutes .
I ask therefore the leave of to to the notice of inquiry who is recorded to the behalf of the Senator Gauthier and who with a report on the recent Summit of the Francophonie .
the Hon. the Speaker :
is - this of agreed , honourable senators for to of from the inquiry No. 1 ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator Andreychuk :
I remind to the honourable senators that the Committee of the Affairs foreign has received the leave of sit now .
the Hon. the Speaker :
I am sorry , Senator Andreychuk , but the leave has was granted .
the Senator Andreychuk :
I to have of the instructions .
the Hon. the Speaker :
her the Senator point it the Rules ?
the Senate has authorized the Committee of the Affairs foreign to the meet to 15 p.m. 30 today today .
that any , I am prepared to independently the speak to the Senator Gauthier .
the Senate wish he that I take the speak to the about of this section of the order of the day now or that I the take more later for power attend to the Senate of the Committee , which I am a member to the right of vote ?
I must solve this énigme all the duration and Wednesdays .
the Senator Hays :
honourable senators , I not am not course that the Senate can help the Senator Andreychuk .
this is the choice .
it is of any obviously free of attend to the Senate of the Committee since the Senate has authorized the Committee to sit in even time that him .
I will to in so that her the Senator Andreychuk be avisée when we reprendrons the debate on the bill of bill C - 4 , be in 15 minutes about , to that it can to for participate to the debate if such is the wish .
the Senator Andreychuk :
I will ask to a of my colleagues of ask the adjournment of the debate in my behalf if I not am not here .
the Senator Hays :
as we hope debate the bill of bill C - 4 today today , I ask to the Senator Andreychuk of take the speak today today .
the hon. Jean - Robert Gauthier :
honourable senators , I am all to fact prepared to take the speak after the Senator Andreychuk , if it is the last human to take the speak on this section of the order of the day .
the Senator Andreychuk :
I will ask the adjournment in my behalf and take the speak tomorrow .
the Senator Hays :
I like that we the hear today today .
the Senator Andreychuk :
honourable senators , I not had not the intention of to a long speech on this question .
we have ample discussed of the only capital to the time of the study of the Act on the extradition .
I have fact clear know my opinion to this time - that , and I not have not changed of notice .
I have agreed that he was pressing of participate to the process of implementation in implement of the agreed on the Argonauts spatiale .
in make , I believe that he not is not in the interest public and that this not is not a good practice Parliamentary that of expect the decision of the Court Supreme .
if the Court Supreme require of other measures legislation , be the in looking in time and place .
for the hour , the bill is clear .
I the as , the question has was debated to the time of the study of the Act on the extradition .
I not have not changed of idea to this regard .
I to thank the Department of the Justice and the Committee for their excellent work relatively to the section 11 of the bill Bill C - 4 .
he there had a problem with the version English and I believe understand that the version French the reads that well .
we pass a bill criminal Canadian and the appliquons to the Argonauts spatiale .
, the words of the definition of " crew member of has Partner State " , the members of the crew are Canadian by our laws for a act or a omission who " is committed be , however in relationship to , has flight element provided by Canada however damages has Canadian flight element " .
he not there has no definition of " Canadian flight element " in the bill of bill and the Department of the Justice has recognized that even if be définissait the expression " flight element " , " has flight element provided by Canada " not is not necessarily the even something that a " Canadian flight element " .
even if be seems cut the splitting in four for some , those who will be Canadian by a bill criminal not partageront not this point of view .
we must be very age .
any human accusée of a offence to the words of this bill deserves of the provisions specific .
I have was pleased that the Committee take my concerns in advisement .
the Department has indicated that in the next bill of bill of together , be will to of the clarification and folder a definition specific for that no human appearing before our courts not be trusts in the uncertainty .
I thank the Committee of that .
then that we we getting in the space and considerations a right pénal extraterritorial , he is extremely important that we be precise .
I have was pleased that the government and the Department of the Justice to my point of view .
I will printed to this legislation legislative .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , for ensure to this that the that record be exactly , the Senate had of the leave of hear the Senator Gauthier .
this question has was implementation to the study .
is - this that a other hon. Senator wish speak ?
the business of the Senate
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , when the Senator Andreychuk has asked the speak , the Senator Gauthier has agreed of speak after it for answer to the wish of attend to a meeting of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign .
I believe understand that be the will for that the Senator Gauthier about now of the inquiry number 1 placed in the behalf to the order of the day .
the hon. ë A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , he is all to fact clear that we we are heard for interrupt the deliberations on the bill of bill who is to the hour current to the step of the third Reading for hear the Senator Gauthier on the inquiry .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the leave is - it granted of from to the interpellations ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Summit of the Francophonie
inquiry - Adjourned of the debate
leave to was granted of from to the inquiry number 1 :
the hon. Jean - Robert Gauthier , to of notice the Wednesday 13 October 99 :
that he call the attention of the Senate on the recent Summit of the Francophonie who the is given to Moncton to the months of September last .
the Summit of the Francophonie who has had place to Moncton , to the New - Brunswick , to the beginning of the months of September omissions a order of the day for the least responsible .
unfortunately , the are of the rampe the are quickly trying of the business that were to the different leaders of States gathered for the braquer on the legality or the legitimacy of the presence of some people to the Summit .
as you the know , I have had the honour of chairman during of the two past years , the Assembly of the parliamentarians of the Francophonie .
I traiterai therefore someone little in my its intervention of the role of the APF with of the summit , for then to the épineuse question of the legitimacy and of the ability of representation of a Leader of state who would soupçonné of have legalistic some rights that we by to the Canada as basic and élémentaires in any society free and democratic .
the Assembly Parliamentary of the Francophonie , as you the know , is a link asset between the representations of the Francophonie and the people francophones , since the legislature has of 47 sections to the within of the Parliaments , States and communities francophones and 12 sections 2.4 .
addition a important work of reflection and of cooperation Parliamentary , it at to the implementation in place and to the New of the institutions democratic and to the missions of observation of election .
during of the Summit of Maurice , to the months of October 1993 , after have réaffirmé the place imminente of the institution Parliamentary to the heart of the democracy as and of the state of right of the summit , be has considered that the APF , only organization Parliamentary of the Francophonie , is the link democratic between the governments and the Peoples of the Francophonie .
in make , be has decided of recognize the APF as the Assembly consultative of the Francophonie , this that has confirmed the Charter of the Francophonie , agreed to Hanoi in November 1997 , who created , by , , the as of Secretary General of the Francophonie , served Mr. Boutros Boutros - summit , former - Secretary General of the UN .
for the to in Conformity with the Charter , the legislature has decided , during of his session plain of Ivory , in July 1998 , of adopt the behalf of Assembly Parliamentary of the Francophonie .
, as of Assembly consultative of the Summit , the Assembly Parliamentary of the Francophonie has in to the Summit of Moncton to the over which the new chairman , Mr. Nicolas Amougou Noma , Prime vice - chairman of the Assembly general of the Cameroon , has fact a intervention before the leaders of state and of government .
, the over of the intervention , Mr. from Amougou Noma has including réaffirmé the commitment of the APF to the democracy Parliamentary , to the state of right and that the Opposition to any transmission of the power by the force of the weapons .
he has reminded the taken of Position of the APF against the children soldiers and in favour of the implementation in place quick of the future court criminal international .
the Assembly of the parliamentarians of the Francophonie support the decision taken during of the summit of create a observatoire of the democracy , that it has always called of all his wish and which it will participate in Dolly the expertise of the parliamentarians .
the APF the pleased also of the reaction favourable should to the bill of creation of a Parliament of the young francophones , to the implementation in place which it wish be closely associated .
it has noted with many of interest the statements of the Summit regarding the diversity linguistic in favour of which it the is involved drew .
in advances , it not can that the question on the Among continuous since several years of the number of members of the Francophonie , which this not is not the service of become a second Organization of the Nations Nations not more that a second Commonwealth .
, the future , of new adhésions must be conditionnées by of the commitments regarding the use of the French in the framework of the relations international and of the education .
finally , the APF remind that it not that in his enough that the legislatures parliamentarians élues in the required respect of the standards Constitutional of their country and that it has suspended those of his members who had up of respect this principle .
it not in has therefore that more of accuracy for exposing the campaign who would any the Francophonie of complaisance particular to the regard of the plans dictatoriaux .
it timely his conviction of the need of a action permanent in favour of the democracy to the daily , of the type of the that it slow now , of the missions of observation of election , the training of the elected , the forums , the meetings order for discuss how better act as Parliamentary in a country democratic .
, this about , the media have fact great of of the presence of a representative of the catalogued and of the Congo .
and , to my sense , they have were hides to the business of the summit and entaché this year if crucial to the vitality of the Francophonie international .
I have took the freedom of write to the Prime Minister Jean Chr to this sujetle 24 August last .
in his response of the 31 August , the Prime Minister me fact on of the will of the Canada , and I quote :
... ... ... of respect the obligation to the place of the Francophonie , be to to the representatives of all the country members of the meet to the Canada for ceVIIe Summit .
however , that not means no that we cautionnons the abuses took by some governments or individuals who could there participate .
I understand the Position of the Prime Minister , but I believe that he is great time of redéfinir the éligibilité of some leaders to participate to of the meetings of dispute international .
of , , to this about , the Minister of the Affairs foreign of the Canada , the hon. Lloyd Axworthy , illegality that the Canada was or would in favour of a right of with humanitarian .
be implementation therefore the principle of the is of the security human on any other activity , including even the development of the trade .
I me rallie to a such Position .
it base , to my sense , the opinion that I exprimais to the Prime Minister , to know that the rights of the man must have is on good number of customs and of practices in s of relations international .
I believe personally that he will soon possible of impose as condition sine qua not to a representation international legitimate the respect of the rights human for the country désirant participate to a conference international .
he the would of a divide tool for to the seaway to some country récalcitrants , to the even as that the embargos commercial and the federalist of the links diplomatic .
I hope , honourable senators , that be will on to this recommendation by that the States who want participate to the organizations international must now respect the rights human in all time .
( on the motion of the Senator Kinsella , the debate is adjourned . )
the bill of implementation in implement of the Agreement on the Station spatiale international civil
third Reading
leave to was granted of to to the section 1 of the Affairs of the government :
the order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Stollery , Honourable to the third Reading of the bill of bill C - 4 , Act to implementation in implement of the Agreement an between the government of the Canada , the governments of States members of the Agency spatiale European , the government of the Japan , the government of the Federation of Russia and the government of the States - United of America on the cooperation Current to the Station spatiale international civil and Dolly of the changes other to of other laws .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , there has he a other hon. Senator who to speak in the debate on the motion to third Reading of the bill of bill C - 4 ?
the hon. Peter A . Stollery :
honourable senators ...
the Hon. the Speaker :
if the hon. Senator at the speak now , the speech will end to the debate in third Reading .
the Senator Stollery :
honourable senators , the Canadians are among the more great users of Technology spatiale and they live in a of the country the more cool to the world .
that the ask by a will an of expand the opportunities of our industry , of our researchers , of our astronautes and , by - with all , of the generations future of Canadians .
the bill of bill C - 4 is essentially to to to the Canada of before all the opportunities that offer the Station spatiale international .
the bill of bill is the instrument of ratification of our contribution to this remarkable business spatiale , but he not is that a small not for the Canada in a bill who represents a not of géant for the humanity .
he not is that normal that a bill of a such scope and of a such processes require that the be définisse a system of management very complex .
the parties to the agreement , to know the Canada , the States - United , the Russia , the Japan and 11 country European , have by of establish a framework of cooperation international in view of the conception detailed , of the development , of the and and of the use , to of the for domains , of a Station spatiale international civil habitée in at .
the agreed for of the mechanisms and of the arrangements to to the ensure that these objectives are refreshed .
juridiquement about , the bill of bill C - 4 highlights to enforcement the commitments that we have took in under of the protocol of agreement intergouvernemental in harmonisant the legislation Canadian with this agreed .
fact more important , the bill of bill C - 4 over the application of the Code criminal of the Canada to the Canadians to on of the Argonauts spatiale and that , in some circumstances , to the Criminal foreign .
the principle is the even that in the other applications extraterritoriales of the Code criminal of the Canada , by example on the plateformes of forage in sea .
in addition , the bill of bill C - 4 allows of we ensure that the government Canadian has of the information essential for him to of Canada his obligations to the as of the Agreement on the Argonauts spatiale and that the information provided are used exclusively to this end .
I like thank my colleagues , in particular , the members of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign for the great interest that they have our to the regard of this bill of bill and of the SSI .
in as that chairman of the Committee , I have was encouraged of see the attention that were the members to this important step of the history of the Canada in the space .
during the hearings of the Committee , some points have was raised and debated , including of the questions provisions to the codifies of conduct , to the juridiction and to the application extraterritorial .
I am happy of say that through to the as and to the effectiveness of the senators , we we are still rapprochés of the Adopted of this bill of bill historic .
his ratification would the seaway to the Canada and , who , to all the partners participant to the program of the Argonauts spatiale , in this who with the and and the use of the more great laboratory spatial of the world served in at , and will birth to a new era of exploration spatiale .
, the enter of the new century , the Canada is a Leader world in the field of the Technology spatiale , prepared to from party of the opportunities that will the economy new on the know who is the of the future .
the Canadians éprouveront a great pride to having , " in direct of the space " , the astronautes Canadian participant to this event grand of the history of the humanity .
he not fact no doubt that , in this beginning of new millennium , we we préparons also to repudiate the boundaries of our Alexander , to throughout of important découvertes scientific , and to to of the progress technological innovative .
we not can even not imagine the découvertes the more important may of be made in the 25 to 50 next years .
imaginons how , he there has per years , were Softwood the progress scientific made since .
the théories révolutionnaires on the s , the evolution and the thermodynamique of the years canoe have should may of a progress ahurissant .
yet , this not are not the voracious who are , which the imagination not so not to follow the evolution quick of the science and of the Technology .
that he me be for of remind to this about few anecdotes historic amusantes .
Charles H . Duell , steering of the Board of the patents to the States - United , had said in 1899 that " all this who was to invent the had already was " .
in 1943 , Thomas Watson , chairman of IBM , would said " he there a market world for five computers all to the more " .
he not is not surprising that , in a number of 1949 of the magazine Popular Mechanics , be has predicting that " the computers of the future could not weigh that a would and half " .
by , , a note of service Economy of the Western Union , business American of telecommunications , stated that " the Technology of the telephone it too to severely for be seriously any as way of communication " .
Courtois would - he could the imagine the way which the lines phone have into our society and which they are now used for do of the digital with he vidéos to of the destinataires many ?
that of the estimates , between 270 and 350 satellites of telecommunications will lancées of here 2007 in view of support the infrastructure World of the information in full growth which the revenues doubleront of here the year 2005 .
the " apparatus power of transmission of the Senators " of Courtois has open the seaway to the Highway of the information that we know today today .
who would could the imagine that the industry Electronic in direct , also called trade Electronic , who not there not to the end of 1993 disorderly before the end of 1995 a growth who him would of fundamental the even importance that the steel and the no to their time .
the community medical , through to the business wishes in the areas of the space , of the Science and of the Technology , the employ to eliminate completely some diseases and to find of the solutions to some other .
our community scientific , to the within of which the scientific Canadian of the space are the leaders of leadership , contributes to our understanding of the Alexander and of the effects of the réchauffement overall of the would .
our community industrial , through to the industry spatiale Canadian , product of the revenues annual higher to 1.4 billion of $ , and creates of the jobs , of the only and of the expertise for a market world without has growing .
the courage of take of the risks and the perseverance on the seaway of the success under - tend each maltreatment and each Innovation .
in despite of the failure , each jalon must be perceived as by part of the need secular of the humanity of urge and of understand the unknown .
, the over of the 50 next years , he not there no way of know what small - retournée , even the he the is of a - on the greater of the planet Mars , obscene to a new Alexander of the Science .
Alexander Graham Courtois has already said this who following :
when a relates the firm , a other the which ; however , he we so if often of where for long and to regret the relates closed that we not let not the other doors who the leaves before we .
the Station spatiale international civil not is that a of the doors who the leaves to the Canada .
it fact of the Canada a of the major partners in the adventure spatiale the more audacieuse never business in the history , all in can that the be it call to of the scientific , of the astronautes , to the experiences and to the Technology of the Canada .
the Investment to long term the more remarkable in these partnerships is the creation of opportunities who wisely our young to recognize that they can them also play a role in the découvertes of the new millennium and to would there participate .
this is therefore with many of pride that I urge the honourable senators to support this jalon for the together of the Canadians and of the humanity in the areas of the exploration spatiale and of the Innovation technologique .
the Hon. the Speaker :
pleasure - he to the honourable senators of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed and the bill of bill , read a third time , is adopted . )
bill of bill of 99 for the implementation in Bill of conventions tax
third Reading - Adjourned of the debate
- honourable senators , I am pleased of take the speak today today to the step of the third Reading of the bill of bill S - 3 , Act of 99 for the implementation in Bill of conventions tax .
the bill of bill amend the convention tax between the Canada and the Japan , relates the implementation in implement of new conventions with the Kirghizistan , the Lebanon , the Algeria , the Bulgaria , the Portugal , the Ouzbékistan and the Syria , and is the convention in effect with the Luxembourg .
the conventions i by the bill of bill are a importance particular for the businesses and the citizens of the Canada who been of the activities in these country and there invest .
let - I of you with the context in which the recorded the bill of bill .
the conventions tax have two great objectives : avoid the double tax and prevent the evasion in s of tax on the income .
you if therefore that the conventions tax have a impact sensitive on two of the priorities of the state , be , of a on , the promotion of the trade and of the investment , be , of other on , the equity tax .
the conventions tax the collected directly to the trade international of property and of services , and they a of way tangible on the economy domestic .
must - he remind that the value of the exports of the Canada represents to the hour current more of 40 per of the GDP annual ?
in addition , the conventions tax help to the equity of the regime tax in thereby that the Canadians not are not victims of a double tax , situation who can up when a taxpayer ahead in a country , but earner a income in a other country .
, is of conventions tax , the a and the other country could impose this income .
among the solutions possible to this problem , the country of residence can removing this income of tax or to a credit in under of a convention tax to the as of the tax paid to the country where the income has was win .
the country responsible can also there of reduce the rate of out to the for of tax .
in effect , the country not in General of the any to the as of the tax on the income paid to the not - residents .
in the absence of convention tax or of a other form of exemption scheduled by the bill , the rate of out took by the Canada on the income of the not - residents is of 25 per .
the conventions tax i by the bill of bill S - 3 not of the rate of out reduced including to the regard of the dividends , interests and royalties for the Canadians Work of the activities in the country in question .
let - I you give few Particulars .
the rate appreciates of out of tax on the dividends received by of the businesses holding to the least 10 per of the rights of vote of the society versant the dividends will of 5 per to the words of the conventions with the Luxembourg , the Lebanon and the Ouzbékistan , and of 10 per to the words of the convention with the Bulgaria and the Syria .
in under of our convention with the Portugal , a business must have to the least 25 per of the rights of vote of a society for be set to the rate of out appreciates of 10 per on the dividends .
the conventions with the Algeria and the Kirghizistan not a rate of - appreciates of 15 per on all the dividends .
in the case of the interests , the rate of out minimum is de10p. per pursuant to the conventions with the Bulgaria , the Luxembourg , the Syria , the Ouzbékistan , the Lebanon and the Portugal , and of 15 per in application of the conventions with the Algeria and the Kirghizistan .
a exemption is scheduled in some case to the regard of the interests , by example those that collected some types of borrowing of the state .
a out maximale of 10 per to the as of the tax will implemented on the royalties to the words of our conventions with the Bulgaria , the Luxembourg , the Syria , the Ouzbékistan , the Kirghizistan and the Portugal .
the rate accomplishing provided by the convention with the Algeria , always to the regard of the royalties , will of 15 per .
Également , some conventions an a clause of exemption or apply a rate appreciates of out de5p. per on the royalties applicable to the rights of author , to the software and to the patents and know - to .
the protocol an with the Japan relates the reduction of the any applicable to the dividends interentreprises , which the rate appreciates is were to 5 per and exonère the companies Canadian who have of the ships or of the aircraft in the field of the transportation international of the taxes of the businesses them to the has local to the Japan .
the provinces Canadian overwhelmingly already this exemption of courtesy to the businesses Japanese who exercise of such activities to the Canada .
given of that the most of the conventions signed by the Canada , there including those with the Ouzbékistan , the Bulgaria , the Algeria and the Kirghizistan , have was négociées before the announcement of these rules , a clause has was incorporée to the rules ensured on the migration of the taxpayers to that the Canada can to unilaterally a credit for tax abroad to the émigrants and this , until in 2007 .
this approach avoids all risk of double tax of the gains made before the departure of the émigrants , of here to this that the conventions in question have was renégociées of manner to be ensure to the new rules .
the even clause the applies in the case of the Japan , who has asked that this question be consideration during of the next negotiations .
I like finally answer to the concerns expressed by few honourable senators as to the convention of double tax with the Ouzbékistan to because of the practices of this country in s of rights of the human .
these values find their incarnation in our institutions and practices democratic , in the commissions federal and provincial of the rights of the human , in the Charter of the rights and freedoms , and in our traditions of peace , of order and of good government .
the approach of the Canada in s of rights of the human since 1986 , without regard to the changes of government , is the commitment and the dialogue .
the Canada is of notice that the institution of a dialogue to several levels with the country who we causent of the concerns in s of rights of the human is a way effective of promote the transparency , the respect of the rights of the human and the symbolic to the rule of right .
our policy the based before all of the pragmatism , a pragmatism encadré by of the principles , to the way which we we efforçons of define the measures concrete who fairer on a change positive and real in the country in because .
the measures that we take vary inevitably that the country , that the degree of will of discuss with the Canada of questions with the rights of the human , the scope of our influence on this country or on his region , the number and the force of the NGOs who there oeuvrent in favour of the rights of the human , and in service of all a range of other factors .
in the case of the Ouzbékistan , that this be to the level bilateral or multilateral , the Canada commitment this country to about of the reforms economic and democratic and to better respect the rights of the human .
, the level multilateral , the Ouzbékistan has accédé in 1994 and 1995 to six treaties important of the Nations Nations on the rights of the human , this who allows to the Canada and to the other States members of the Nations Nations of whether if the Ouzbékistan satisfy to his obligations to the words of these treaties .
this country has , in addition , signed the Act final of Helsinki , of so that he is now member of the Organization for the security and the cooperation in Europe .
the Canada support the programs of monitoring and of democratization of the OSCE in this country .
this is to this as that the CIDA has sponsored the participation of representatives of organizations ouzbékes of Defence of the rights of the human to a great conference of the OSCE on this question , held to Warsaw in 1998 .
by , , the Agency Canadian of development international would the support to a sure number of bills ouzbékes in the field of the rights of the human , including the preparedness and the distribution of a brochure on the Declaration Universal of the rights of the man by the Centre national of the rights of the human of Ouzbékistan .
by on of the démentèlement of the Union Soviet , he has should negotiate of new agreements with the States , such the Ouzbékistan , who not are not part of the States successors from by the convention of double tax reached with the former - Union Soviet .
the Canada has by of the negotiations in 1995 , in reason of the interest that showing the businesses Canadian for this market , including for the sector of the resources natural .
the Ouzbékistan is a of the more great country producers of however to the world .
, this day , well that the trade of the Canada with the Ouzbékistan the avèrent modest , the businesses Canadian continue of the interest to of the sectors such that the and mining , the telecommunications and , all recently , the education , in particular the creation of schools of studies trade in Ouzbékistan and the reform of the system of education .
the negotiating of a convention of double tax with the Ouzbékistan is consistent to the will of the Canada of facilitate the a of a economy part to a economy of market and of promote the development democratic in the new States independent of the former - Union Soviet .
of the instruments legal as the convention help to promote the transparency , the predictability and the respect of the rule of the right in our relations economic bilateral .
honourable senators , the Canada continue of the Services in a dialogue with the Ouzbékistan of way to encourage this country to improve his practices in s of development democratic , of respect of the rights of the human and of reform economic .
however , he is difficult of the implanter on the markets of the former - Union Soviet and that does a preparedness of long manfully .
the instruments legal who help to the to , such the convention of double tax , consistent in of the agreements - does who base the intérets of the Canadians and of the businesses Canadian .
when these past being of expand their activities to of the markets difficult as , of the Ouzbékistan , these instruments have for advantage of tidy the rules and of improve the predictability .
before of complete , I speak two other points .
be of first , honourable senators , that when the provisions of a convention tax diffèrent of those domain in the Act of the tax on the income , the convention tax reduce of way to ensure that the objectives that I have mentioned more earlier be suffering .
honourable senators , the Elimination of the double tax on the plan of the operations trade with the country Canadian by this bill of bill not can that be to the advantage of the traders and of the investors Canadian who there are case , and promote of the even the of the relations international harmonieuses and of the trade commercial reinforce .
, the hour current , the Canada has an of the conventions tax with 67 country .
this figure montera to 74 a time that the conventions i by this bill of bill enhanced in effect , this who will in the sense of the objective of the Canada of expand the system of conventions tax international .
honourable senators , I you ask therefore urge of adopt quickly this bill of bill .
the hon. ë A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , the Senator would loved , it also , the deal on this bill of bill , but it has should the to to the meeting of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs foreign .
I move the adjournment of the debate in the behalf , and I am that it in receive a word tomorrow .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , as the end of the year approach to not of géants , could - I ask to the Senator Kinsella if of other members of the Opposition wish take the speak on the section in more of the Senator Andreychuk ?
the hon. John Lynch - Lynch ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
I believe that we are the two only senators who wish take the speak .
( on the motion of the Senator Kinsella , to the behalf of the Senator Andreychuk , the debate is adjourned . )
the speech of the Throne
motion of Adopted of the is in response
the order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Jeffrey , seconded by the hon. Senator Furey , Honourable to the Adopted of a Adresse to His Excellency the Gouverneure general in response to the speech that her has by during of the openness of the second session of the 30 - sixth Parliament . - (
8e day of the resuming of the debate ) .
the hon. Marjory LeBreton :
honourable senators , I am pleased of participate to the debate on the speech of the Throne , even if I sharing the notice of the most of the observers and commentators , to know that the speech of the Throne is dépourvu of vision and not we news not great - something on the intentions of the government .
I not have that a something to say to this about :
that me brings to the heart of my speech : the management economic , without Opposition no , pratiquée by the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister in Awaiting .
is how the cabinet of the Prime Minister nutshell the speech of the Throne :
the era of the growth effrénée of the deficits and of the debt public is behind we - for of good .
we have presented of the Budgets table for two million financial from - this who not the was not seen since 1951 - 1952 .
the ratio of the debt to the GDP falling constantly .
as they not are not filed , the makers of image and of propaganda of the government are always cent apparently to to believe to the Canadians that the government precedent was responsible of this situation .
they have déformé the facts .
I am well come , honourable senators , that the only words who can describe this tactique would which uncontrolled .
the government has presented under a false day all the initiatives of the former government Progressive - Conservative of Brian Mulroney : the free - Exchange , the GST , the privatization and the deregulation , the expanded of the airport Pearson , and the Purchase of helicopters , for not mention that those - that .
as he has adopted systematically all these political that he had dénoncées , why the it be argue that he has " inherited of a guilty " , for use the words of the Prime Minister ?
what are the facts ?
honourable senators , to the fall of 1993 , the deficit the what to 37,5 billion of $ .
the Liberal are upon to the power in November 1993 , and the are then raced of add all the Estimates imaginables to this figure for the increase the more possible before the end of the year 1993 - 1994 , who the is debated in March 1994 . how have had five months for chamber their work .
they editions the figure spéculatif of 44 to 46 billion of $ little after their arrived to the power , will that he reason ancré in the spirit of the public , this who the is product , unfortunately .
after well of the efforts , they have succeeded to to grimper the figure of the deficit to 42 billion of $ .
their purpose was clear : to a figure higher to , of 38 billion of $ , be the deficit who there when the government Progressive Conservative has was up in 1984 .
how the there are - they took ?
they have added to the registres of the Estimates who were in fact for for the years to come .
in fact , honourable senators , three of the amounts qualification not have not was doctoral extending March 1993 , even the they had was enrolled to the registres for the year 1993 - 1994 .
the Auditor General has against this practice , but the government the in moquait .
the Liberal had need of a some given for their program policy .
they were prepared to accept the criticism not of the media for a day or two for throughout their program policy .
why not the have - they not fact ?
they not were face to no Opposition to the Parliament and , to the time , they bénéficiaient of the support of media accommodants , even often serviles .
the parties of Opposition , the Bloc and the Party Reform , want more destroy the Party Progressive - Conservative that such of the accountable of the government .
the Party Liberal has therefore perpétué a so which he has fact a reality and which the members continue still of record , as the phoques burgeoning that they are .
as be knows their false representations in all the other areas , he is surprising that be not the has not has in question to this regard also .
for invent of the stories , they are very strong .
I i that , for a Liberal , this is wonderful .
that the there for captured this so .
since the Liberal or those who are their apologie not have never given many to the principle of the equity - all is a in love , to the War and in policy , said - be - accept that as a sad reality who , be said in from , not fact that we the sad opinion that has the public of the policy and of the politicians .
regardons the case under a other contempt , honourable senators , be in by upon the torts to unconventional , and hope that that will to to understand the situation to all the observers of the scene policy .
this is s this that I hear to : unconventional the facts .
in 1984 , the situation which héritait the new government Progressive - Conservative was disastrous .
the Leader Liberal of the Ontario , David Peterson , had said to the time : " Brian Mulroney hérite of a situation guilty . "
the vice - Prime Minister and Secretary of state to the Affairs External a , Jean Chr , had said , with a her unusual that he not has never benchers since : " We let the Access - eat vacuum . "
in October last , Michael Bliss , in a chronic s : " Trudeau to 80 years - a peerage heritage " , has wrote this who following :
the failure of the government Trudeau to the regard of the policy economic was if full that even the rubble have M .
who , to on the archéologues of the history , the recalls of the Agency of review of the Investment abroad , of the guideline of the Program Energy national and of the controls of the salaries and of the price ?
who the in soucie ?
he has continued of the way next :
even when Pierre Trudeau was to the power , the failure of the attempts of the Liberal for that the economy Canadian be part by the state was became country .
the concept of planning , of collectivisme and of progress by the étatisation on the model of the socialistes the are effondrées to the Canada and in the world around , all as the socialisme him - even .
all this who former of the economy Liberal of the years Trudeau , this was a terrible montagne of debts and a regime of tax oppressif .
the government Chr has tried of the detract totally of this aspect of the heritage Mr. Trudeau .
honourable senators , the fact is that the intervention of the government in the economy and in our lives was to the apogée .
the regulations édictés by the government and the chinoiseries administrative were to the order of the day , and the Estimates government 578 of the levels records .
we had a inflation to two figures and of the political débilitantes such that the NEP and the AEIE .
the Auditor General of the time has out with justesse that the government of the Canada and the Parliament had " lost the control of the Finance public " .
the Estimates for the programs had increased of more of 14p. per by year for 15 years .
the deficit federal was past of close of zero to 38 billion of $ , and the debt federal had increased of more of 1000p. per , some of the increases the more important the observed to the time where Jean Chr was Minister of the Finance .
in 1984 , in as that new government , we have had the job task of change the things and the attitudes .
we were profoundly to we atteler to the task .
we necessary that we find that to the Canadians who we had elected .
as he is said in a study university :
the consequences to long term ... ... ...
Peoples political economic of Trudeau ,
... ... ... - the inflation galopante , the dollar in further free , of the rate of interest records and a unemployment in increase - Ministry of seriously problems to the Prime Minister Mulroney and he has was long for there be .
he not fact no doubt that he was that the Canada renverse the steamship and are to of the reforms deep .
what have was the results ?
if be excludes the service of the debt , he not there had more of deficit government in 1990 .
that in is - he of the deficit which we go constantly speak to the other place and in the public ?
the truth , this is that , as all observer of the scene financial the knows , the only legislation real of the importance of a deficit , this is the percentage of the GDP that he represents .
that is recognized even in the book Red of sad memory .
be there said the standard that the Union European was to his members who want adhérer to the treaty of Maastricht , be a deficit equivalent to 3 per of the GDP .
what are the facts ?
expressed in percentage of the GDP , the deficit federal has was virtually reduced of half by the government precedent , from of 8.7 per in 1984 to 91 per in 1990 - 1991 .
then , we have was coalesces by a recession World who has a little grugé the gains for to back the deficit to 5,8p. per of the GDP in 1993 - 1994 .
in despite of the recession , the deficit was to the end of our mandate of close of three points of percentage on to this that he was when we are upon to the power , even after the ajouts facts by the Liberal to the over of the five the months of the year financial .
he is indéniable that we have left the Finance public in a well better of in 1993 that when we are upon to the power in 1984 .
as a analyste of the Council private the has out - and he is interesting of note that this analyste is today today to the Senate , in our friends of in opposite :
... ... ... all the deficits and all the increases of the debt national were account to the interest on the debt who there before that ...
our
... government not so to the power .
what other measures taken by the government have contributed to the of present of our economy ?
the abolition of the Agency of review of the Investment abroad .
in the sector Energy , by example , the Program Energy national , who has cost of the billion of $ to the economy of the Alberta and has destroyed the industry oil has was will , of even that the tax on the income pétroliers .
the government has privatized or dissous 39 companies of state and of other companies of portfolios similar .
a legislation legislative has was agreed and of the measures administrative have was taken to of eliminate or of fusionner 41 agencies , boards and commissions .
these measures , conjuguées to the oriented of the operations , have fact that 90 . positions have was supprimés .
of Teleglobe to Air Canada , in from by Petro and Pétro - Canada , of new companies private are valour for to the competition and the expand on a market world of more in more require .
Petro and De Canadair were to the time of their sales to Bombardier of the gouffres without funds in which be consequent of the money .
today today , Petro is a success in the industry Canadian , with the sales of the Challenger , of the from of transportation regional to reactions and of the Global Express .
the free - Exchange with the States - United and the NAFTA have was and are to the heart of many of our accomplishments .
the Opposition , particularly the of the Liberal , has was extremely furore .
be has diaboliséM. Mulroney and has in question our patriotism .
he is now clear that we have chosen the good seaway for the Canada .
only the Liberal could printed to these political without broncher ?
be seems have widely about now that the Liberal the are contrary with s to the Agreement of free - Exchange with the States - United and to the NAFTA who predecessor the Mexico for the accept then without contingency when they are upon to the power .
in 1988 , the last year before the implementation in implement of the Agreement of free - Exchange between the Canada and the States - United , our exports of goods to the States - United the are high to EH billion of $ .
honourable senators , he has was 120 years to from of the Confederation for that our exports to the States - United conforming per billion of $ .
he not has was that 10 years in the framework of the free - Exchange for overtake the 250 billion of $ .
among the calamités who were the abattre on we that the Liberal to the on of the conclusion of the Agreement of free - Exchange , he there had the would of the insurance - illness , of the development regional and of our institutions cultural .
without the free - Exchange , our economy would could very well stagner to the over of the years 90 .
that not to not say that all that not has not was realized without with or upheavals .
as the Council Canadian of the leaders of businesses the has said :
our exports have was the biting the more proceed in the galaxie Canadian .
he is fair of say without was that the free - Exchange is a success remarkable .
who could never forget all the chahut that he there has had in this chamber ?
in fact , he would very difficult of find a precedent in any our history .
during the election of 1993 , the Liberal have promised of abolish this tax and of the replace .
the Canadians have voted in great number in graduated that this would the case .
six years more later , this tax is always that .
why ?
the response is obvious .
be has poses that he the is of a tax original visible and step of the point of view social .
that the is also balances beneficial for our economy , particularly to the level of the exports , and the government in has was of the revenues important .
the former tax of spur per on the sales of the manufacturers that we have - was a tax seeing nuisible to the exports .
the Agreement of free - Exchange between the Canada and the States - United , the NAFTA , the GST , the privatization , the deregulation , the abolition of the Program Energy national and the Alternative of the Agency of review of the Investment abroad by Investissement Canada are all of the measures by part of the restructuring and of the modernization of the economy Canadian .
of a point of view tax , the reduction of the deficit and the restructuring of the government have began as 1984 , and not in 1994 as some people trying of the to believe .
the Hon. the Speaker :
hon. Senator LeBreton , I have the regret of you interrupt , but your time of speak is has .
the Senator LeBreton :
honourable senators , me donnez - you the leave of continue ?
the Hon. the Speaker :
is - this of agreed ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator LeBreton :
all these courageuses political have two makes in common .
this is a government Conservative who the has adopted and the Liberal the have all combattues , voting against each of they .
when the government Mulroney has left the power in June 1993 , he there had 1.4 million of jobs of more that in September 1984 .
the rate plus was of 6 forced , the level the more low in 20 years .
the rate of inflation was of 1.5 per , the rate the more low in 30 years .
the Nations Nations were of to that the Canada was the Prime rank to the world for this who is of the quality of the life .
but this who any still more , honourable senators , this is that the attitudes have changed .
through to our efforts , the Canadians have including the importance of the reduction of the deficit , this that they not were not loans to to he there has 10 years .
he there has few years , the not Thomas Velk and A . R . Riggs of the University McGill , codirecteurs of the program of the studies North - U.S. to McGill , have directed the performance economic of the Canada under all the first ministers since the Second War World .
these experts of the economy have comparé the results regarding the unemployment , the inflation , the growth , the rate of interest , the value of the dollar , the distribution of the income , the deficit and the rate of tax .
, what conclusion in are - they upon ?
I quote directly of their study .
the to objective of Mulroney - as to the figures on the performance real of the economy Canadian - is the better of the 35 past years .
as I the have said to the beginning , all these facts indéniables the are perdus in the turbulence of the misinformation and of the tampering of the truth of the on of the an equipment of propaganda called - Party Liberal of the Canada .
the driven in Communications of the Liberal and their friends lèche - boots in the media say now to the country to what point the government present has courageusement eliminated the deficit , redressé the economy and saved the country .
jean Chr and Paul Martin have already borne their auréole .
this way go around of the allegation that which the new government Liberal had inherited in 1993 of a situation economic and budget extremely bad .
during of a debate watch to the over of the campaign election of 1997 , Mr. Chr has even spoke of the " situation disastrous " which he had inherited .
Mr. . Chr was can - be a other of his fameuses about with the without - from .
he not had course inherited of nothing of such .
the work preparatory had was fact for a strong resuming economic new on the exports .
our political have brought a change structurel deep to the Canada , on the plan of the taxes , of the inflation and of the trade commercial .
they were impopulaires , but necessary .
honourable senators , the Canadians should with reason the outlining of these results , but recognize - in the deserves , of the least in part , to who he with .
as the former Prime Minister Brian Mulroney the has said a day , the ministers of the Finance Michael Wilson and Don Mazankowski have planted the backyard and Paul Martin in cueille the choirs .
in as that CIBC , I me am of these results and I not rechigne not to recognize Mr. Martin all the deserves who him with .
we all who done now to the Parliament have in effect the opportunity of see of the political âprement controversial produce finally of the results benefit who internship the fabric social of our country .
honourable senators , we have said to the Canadians the truth that they were know to the about of the free - Exchange , of the NAFTA , of the GST , of the reduction of the deficit , of the low inflation , of the airport Pearson , of the Purchase of the helicopters and we have even believed in this - tradition Parliamentary that is the responsibility government .
our political economic have was very controversial in of many as , but we have repeatedly and and and time that if they were adopted and with in application on a long period , the Canada would a nation turned .
the deficit would eliminated , the exports connaîtraient a growth astonishing and the well - be economic of the Canadians and of the members of their families would améliorés in a climate not inflationniste .
we not have not promised the perfect ; we have all simply said that he there would of the progress important .
I am very proud that my colleagues and I of this side - this of the House are contributed and continue of help widely to this progress important .
of the Senators :
hear !
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , if the hon. Senator Jeffrey at now the speak , the speech will for effect of closing the debate on the motion .
the hon. Richard H . Jeffrey :
in the Adresse in response to the speech of the Throne , the Senator Furey we has fact benefit of his own perspective outcome of the limit is of our country and that of the experience personal .
since this time , of many senators have in to the debate and have fact point a broader range of ideas .
this is a debate who the is own that the best traditions of this chamber .
in my is , I have fact the comments following :
he responsibility to the government of listen carefully all the world , of make his own studies and Evaluations and , in across of n , of determine a plan of action .
this is on the faith of this plan of action and of the effectiveness to the to in implement that the government will felt .
more important still , this is of the quality of these decisions and of the measures adopted by the government that dépendront the future and the well - be of the Canada and of the Canadians .
honourable senators , the government has heard now our Senators and has the advantage of power be on our advice .
that the said , the he not there has not of other speakers , I am happy of at this motion to my behalf .
( the motion is agreed with we and the Adresse in response to the speech of the Throne is agreed . )
( on the motion of the hon. Senator Hays , he is ordered that the Adresse be grossoyée and introduced to His Excellency the Gouverneure general by His Hon. the Speaker . )
the speech of the Throne
the Adresse in response - Motion Honourable to the end of the debate the eighteenth day of Senate - Withdrawn of the section
the order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Hays , seconded by the hon. Senator MLA :
that the deliberations to the order of the day for the resuming of the debate on the motion Honourable to the Adopted of a Adresse in response to the speech of the Throne , by by His Excellency the Gouverneure general before the Houses of the government , the remission the eighteenth day of Senate where the order will was debated ;
and on the motion of adjournment of the hon. Senator Kinsella , seconded by the hon. DeWare , that the motion not be not now agreed but that it be amended in deleting the word " eighteenth " and in the replacement by the word " fourteenth " .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I ask that the motion No. 2 , under " Affairs of the government " , be rayée of the order of the day , since it not is more that .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , we must of first obtain the consent of the author of the amendment , seen that the motion is now to the study .
the author of the amendment wish he withdraw the motion ?
the hon. ë A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
the Hon. the Speaker :
the hon. Senator Kinsella ask that the amendment be from .
is - this of agreed , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the hon. Senator Hays ask that his motion be withdrawn .
is - this of agreed , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the section is from . )
the Act on the snitch in the service public
second Reading - adjournment of the debate
essentially , the bill of bill S - 13 the recorded in the right over of the values and of the Ethics of the service public federal .
the bill of bill the is to the service public professional and modern that we have the opportunity of have to the Canada .
in fact , I am of notice that the service public of the Canada not has not the equal in the world .
a report entitled : " De solid weakened " examine the values and the Ethics in the service public .
he the is of the report of a group of work ' in place by the Clerk of the Council private he there has few years already and chaired by the late John Tait , a former colleague of the under - Minister of the Justice .
this report had for subject of help the service public to reflect and , in some case , to redécouvrir and understand his values fundamental , and finally to renew the commitment to their regard in all the aspects of the work .
I recommends the Reading of this publication to the hon. Senator .
some of the questions and problems identified as concerns of the officials Canadian rely the evolution of the conventions on the accountability ; the conflict between the ancient and the new values ; the challenges of order déontologique that which the new services and the new approaches in s of management in the service public ; and the leadership and the management of the resources human in this time of great changes .
the bill of bill S - 13 attempts of to the need of provide a framework for with the question of the protection of the dénonciateurs in the new context of the Ethics and of the values as touchstone important of our service public Canadian .
the framework for to with the question of the protection of the dénonciateurs provided in the bill of bill S - 13 is based on the regime déontologique who , very frankly and fortunately , is of more in more fréquent in our service public .
as that is indicated to the page 54 of the report Tait , a regime déontologique :
more far , to the page 55 , the report Tait fact having this who following :
the a of the elements of the regime déontologique which we pocket to a importance particular is the implementation in place to the within of the agencies of the service public of mechanisms of use appropriate , and that of counsel , or of Protective of the officials , when those - this feel that them - same or of other could the find in a situation of conflict of interests , that they are opposite to of the difficulties of order déontologique , have the sense that be ) of the pressure on them , or that be their ask of take of the measures contrary to the Ethics , to the values of the service public or to the interest public .
the officials we have said several time that he is needless of their ask of preserve the values of the service public or of the standards high in s of Ethics , if be not their provides not the tools for the to .
the a of these tools essential is a human accessible to who they can the address , in any confidence , for obtain of the advice , express of the concern to the about of instructions showed , or attention a serious derogation to the Code déontologique of the service public .
a such human must have the rotunda , the self and the authority necessary for exercise effectively his duties and protect the identity and the as of those who have use to his services .
he must to in place of the mechanisms ensure to the values of the service public who allow to the officials of express their concerns to the regard of measures affiliated illégales , contrary to the Ethics or exceeded with the values of the service public , and of give on to their concern of way fair and impartiale .
honourable senators , the bill of bill S - 13 is to give on to the desire expressed by the service public it - even , to know , of to a service of first quality .
the structure of the bill of bill based on four pillars .
he the is , as Prime pillar , of ensure , to the level of the under - section , a management of the departments and of the agencies who be consistent to the Ethics and who be based on of the values , of such so that the managers and , to the across of the that , the Minister relevant him - even , involved to the resolution of the problems .
the second pillar with the cooperation réciproque and the need of serve the interest public .
the third pillar is to be a way of deal the allegations of conduites reprehensible , of way to respect the interest public and to décharger the officials dénonciateurs of the obligation stressante of the with of the case of conduites reprehensible in lead those - this to the a of the three commissioners of the Board of the service public of the Canada .
the fourth pillar of the bill of bill ahead in the protection of the dénonciateurs .
the bill of bill S - 13 there therefore of the provisions empêchant the measures of reprisal .
the model , honourable senators , first , protects the interest public in General ; second , contributes the service public in as that institution of first category ; third , for the parliamentary of accountable and the research of solutions to the level of the under - section ; and , fourth , protects the officials .
the ( 2 has ) for that be underscored on the education and that be identifying the people working in the place of work of the service public to the Ethics and to the importance of the values in community of work .
the second " P " somatotropin to the process .
the ( 2 b ) has for subject of protect the interest public in incorporate a mechanism for to to the officials of the service public of exposing in any confidentiality of the abuse or omissions in the place of work to a Commissioner independent , a of the three commissioners of the Board of the service public .
he will then to this Commissioner , in the interest public , of make of the investigation and of ensure the followed necessary .
finally , the third " P " somatotropin to the protection .
the ( 2 c ) as that the bill of bill has for subject of protect these officials against of the measures of reprisal for have against to this commission special , of good faith , or have the intention of the to , of the conduites reprehensible to the within of the place of work .
the honourable senators will that the framework of the bill of bill is clear and simple .
the service public it - even working to this question of Ethics and of values .
the to is excellent , that given of the level high of professionalism that showing our officials , who have was to the service of several governments different to the over of the years .
we should be proud of the service public of the Canada .
this question of snitch is a reality with which of other jurisdictional of jurisdiction have tried of tragic .
the governments who the are succeeded have our their interest for attempt of be a legislation legislative appropriate on the snitch .
the model that we propose in this bill of bill , on which , hope - the , the Committee Senate appropriate invitera the it to to of the representations , is all simply to designate a of the three commissioners of the Board of the service public of the Canada to as of Commissioner of the interest public which a official to noticed a activity illégale or a conduct reprehensible would a snitch .
the snitch would gift to the Commissioner of the interest public to that the official not in be not the only responsible , that given of any the anxiety and of the stress that that i .
the absence of activity reprehensible is in the interest of the public .
this is why the bill of bill for the held of a inquiry by the Commissioner of the interest public even .
a snitch can sometimes the would futile and vexatoire .
it would defeated in first decision , of so that he not there would no loss of time for the individual , the Department or the agency in question .
a snitch of good faith would place to a inquiry to the over of which the Commissioner the they to the Department .
this last would guest to manage of manner to unconventional the situation , because that he is of first importance that the operating and the management of the departments and of the agencies be ensure to the rules of the Ethics and to the values who are the touchstone of our service public .
he not is not question of a approach politics .
he the is rather of maintain the obligation of to that and the responsibility to the level of the operations .
however , if the High of the interest public responsible of a snitch of conduct reprehensible jugeait that he not receives not a response satisfactorily of the agency or of the Department , he could the address to the Minister , who must finally to of the accountable , and the Minister Gustafson to rectify the situation .
in élaborant this mechanism , we have felt extremely important that the service of implementation in value and of education continues of to to the Board of the service public .
finally , he was necessary of be the protection of the prerequisite legal of the confidentiality .
it must be grew as that the official tabled a phase with of the Commissioner , through to the shut of any legislation of reprisal .
honourable senators , this are the principles who under - tend this bill of bill .
I in have tracé the major lines .
I urge my colleagues to participate to the debate .
( on the motion of the Senator Finestone , the debate is adjourned . )
the Act on the Assent Royal
second Reading - Motiond' amendment - Ruling of the Speaker
the order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Lynch - Lynch , seconded by the hon. Senator Kinsella , Honourable to the second Reading of the bill of bill S - 7 , Act Current to the guideline of granting by the Governor General , to the behalf of Majesty Majesty , of the Assent Royal to the bills of bill adopted by the Houses of the Parliament ;
and on the motion of amendment of the hon. Senator Cools , seconded by the hon. Senator Sparrow , that the bill of bill not be not now read a second time , but rather when the sponsor remplira the condition exigée by the bill of the Parliament before the Adopted by the Parliament of a bill of bill of initiative Parliamentary amend a prerogative Royal , this condition preliminary the the means of the consent Alaska of Majesty Majesty to the study by the Parliament of his interests in the bill of bill S - 7 , who move of limit and of amend the formalités of granting of the Assent Royal by Majesty Majesty to the Canada , and of the even the of amend the form of the Senate . - (
decision of the Speaker ) .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , if that is to the Senate , I am prepared to to my decision now .
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the 1 December , to the over of the debate in second Reading of the bill of bill S - 7 relatively to the guideline of granting by the Governor General , to the behalf of Majesty Majesty , of the Assent Royal , the Senator Cools has proposed a amendment .
the amendment would for effect of until the second Reading of the bill of bill until to this that the sponsor of the bill of bill , the Senator Lynch - Lynch , be the means of the consent Alaska .
the Senator Cools has fact point that this amendment the numbers , the of that the bill of bill , to the notice , amend a prerogative Royal .
on this , the Senator Lynch - Lynch has challenged the amendment in involving the Rules .
the Senator Carstairs , then the Senator Kinsella have said that they were of agreed with the Position of the Senator Lynch - Lynch .
- to these objections , the Senator Cools has denied that the amendment proposed is to impose of the restrictions to who that be .
in this case - this , however , the Senator Cools has supported that the of that the bill of bill would a prerogative Royal in seize on the powers of the Sovereign relatively to the Assent Royal , he would give a indication as what the Governor General or Majesty Majesty the Queen agreed to the proposal found in the bill of bill S - 7 .
the Senator Cools has of as example the debate who has assembly the study of the Parliament Act in 1911 , bill who allows the Parliament to adopt of the bills of bill in turning the House of the Lords .
I have , since the use to the Rules , examined all the facts and am now prepared to me deal .
all of first , he there has in my spirit two elements to consider in this use to the Rules .
the Prime , well course , with the question of the prerogatives royal .
the second relates on the such of amendment who is authorized to the step of the second Reading .
I traiterai of first of the second part .
, the second Reading , the Senate is called to vote on the principle of the bill of bill , that the Senate accept or not the intention first .
this rule of the principle of the bill of bill has led to limit the type of amendment who can be proposed to this step .
, on the motion of question pre , who is a motion of Alternative , he there has essentially two types of amendment who are for in second Reading , the referred to several months and the amendment considerations .
the referred to several months is to until the study of the bill of bill in proposing that he be read : " a second time in six or three months to be of this day " .
the form of the motion is well established ; it has was created by the Parliament British he there has more of two centuries to of bending the definition too close of the term " now " in the motion usuelle to second Reading : " That the bill of bill ... ... ... be now read a second time " .
of our days , it there usually to extend the debate , the of that it give to the people who the are already expressed on the motion key the possible of take to new the speak .
the amendment considerations , by against , is a mechanism for to like a statement or a explanation , under form of motion , for make why a bill of bill not should not be read a second time .
in the facts , as the ask the thing 286 Parliamentary of Beauchesne , 6e edition , to the comment 670 , to the page 207 , the amendment considerations must answer to some criteria .
the amendment considerations must say someone principle who strictly to the with or the precludes of the principles , of the objectives or of the provisions of the bill of bill or he can comment the circumstances provisions to the Presented or to the review of the bill of bill , or in to point of other for the against to the Adopted .
of more , the comment 671 ( 3 ) , to the page 208 , it hear that the amendment considerations not must not for of conditions to the second Reading .
is the amendment proposed by the Senator Cools the 1 December :
that the bill of bill S - 7 not be not now read a second time , but rather when the sponsor remplira the condition exigée by the bill of the Parliament before the Adopted by the Parliament of a bill of bill of initiative Parliamentary amend a prerogative Royal , this condition preliminary the the means of the consent Alaska of Majesty Majesty to the study by the Parliament of his interests in the bill of bill S - 7 , who move of limit and of amend the formalités of granting of the Assent Royal by Majesty Majesty to the Canada , and of the even the of amend the form of the Senate .
by therefore , the motion of amendment not is not valid and not can be implementation to the Senators as amendment to the step of the second Reading of the bill of bill S - 7 .
that however not rule not the problem completely .
as I the have said lines , he there has two aspects to consider in this use to the Rules .
as the has indicated the Senator Cools in the intervention , the consent is necessary when a bill of bill will body the prerogatives , the income héréditaires , the property or the interest personal of the Crown .
in this case - this , he not fact no doubt that the only about of the bill of bill S - 7 is , of the prerogative Royal .
the bill of bill not contains no clause regarding the property or the interest personal of the Queen .
the question to which he must answer , then , is of know if a bill of bill who move of the formalités other that the ceremony of Assent Royal amend a prerogative of the Crown .
in reaps the point of view , the Senator Cools the is order to of the comments facts to the Parliament British during the debate on the Parliament Act in 1911 .
I saying not not too know how this example can enlighten the circumstances who we with .
the comments of Lord Lansdowne are upon the need of obtain the consent Alaska when a bill of bill amend a prerogative Royal , without however make the nature or the scope of the prerogative Royal , particularly in this who has with to the impressive constitutional of the Canada .
of after Beauchesne , the question of the consent Alaska can be qualified important for the decision final regarding a bill of bill .
, the comment 726 ( 2 ) , to the page 221 , he is said that " the is ( the consent Alaska ) makes nulles and not cooperating the deliberations pensioners in view of the Adopted of the bill of bill " .
as of many honourable senators the know , this not is not the first time that the Senate is a bill of bill on the Assent Royal .
in 1985 , the Committee of the privileges , of the Rules and of the procedure has presented a report on the Assent Royal , who recommended including the drafting of a resolution for that a is Joint be sent to the Governor General Requesting that he does the amendment of the ceremony of Assent Royal .
however , the report not has never was adopted by the Senate .
, the over of my research , I have also found that , when the Parliament British had adopted the Royal Assent Act in 1967 , the consent Alaska has was " as to the House of the Lords that to the House of the Commons before the Adopted of the bill of bill .
in fact , the consent Alaska has was announced before the second Reading , as the Senator Cools suggestion that be it with the bill of bill S - 7 .
on this question , Beauchesne has to the comment 726 ( 2 ) that " the use to that the consent Alaska be " as the pre of the debate " .
in the paragraph following , Beauchesne ask to the comment 727 ( 1 ) that " well that the consent can be " to not any what step of the deliberations before the Adopted clear of the bill of bill , the use of the House ( Peoples Commons ) to that he the be during of the Presented of the motion to second Reading " .
of more , he seems that the use of mean the consent Alaska to the Canada not has almost never affected the Senate and the House of the Commons .
in the many case where the consent Alaska has was from and " , I have found that he is usually " to the House of the Commons and rarely to the Senate .
in fact , I not have found that a case where the consent Alaska has was " in our House .
that the is past in 1951 , fair before the second Reading of the bill of bill 192 , Act amend the Act on the Petitions of right .
the use to the Canada of give the consent Alaska to the House of the Commons only has was increased by the thing of procedure Parliamentary Parliamentary Procedure and Practice in the Dominion of Canada of John Bourinot , who back to 1884 , in his first edition .
a example namely of 1886 , content in the fourth edition of in , give a example where the consent Alaska has was " , to the House of the Commons and not to the Senate , in the case of a amendment by the Senate to a bill of bill private of the Commons .
that seems a example acceptable of a derogation to the impressive of Westminster .
that to in the revitalizing circumstances ?
as I the have already explained , be not can use a amendment considerations as the Senator Cools the has proposed .
he would can - be better spent raise the question under form of use to the Rules to the place of propose a amendment to the step of the motion of second Reading .
however , even under form of use to the Rules , I not have nothing heard who me restrictive , in my quality of Speaker , to until the debate on the bill of bill S - 7 to the step of the second Reading .
the consent Alaska is can - be necessary , but in service of the precedents Canadian , he seems that nothing not require necessarily that the consent Alaska be of in this chamber .
in make , I unless that the amendment not is not valid and that the debate in second Reading on the Bill bill S - 7 can the continue .
I move however that , if this bill of bill is adopted in second Reading , the Committee which the bill of bill will referred is also the question of the consent Alaska .
( on the motion of the Senator Poulin , the debate is adjourned . )
the Act on the Parliament of the Canada
bill of bill Amend - Second Reading - Continued of the debate
the order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Grafstein , seconded by the hon. Senator Callbeck , Honourable to the second Reading of the bill of bill S - 5 , Act amend the Act on the Parliament of the Canada ( similarly official of the Parliament ) . -
( the hon. Senator Kinsella ) .
the hon. ë A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I rise for to few comments on the principle of the bill of bill S - 5 , Act amend the Act on the Parliament of the Canada ( similarly official of the Parliament ) .
of first , I wish to attention to the honourable senators that I support the principle of the bill of bill .
I for the Senator Grafstein of have were this question to our attention .
traditionally in Britain - Britain , the as of similarly official of the Parliament is following by the monarque to a similarly who has the duty of write the odes and the to commémoratifs .
this is a vestige of the used médiévale that which of the versificateurs and of the ménestrels were part of the on Royal and also of the time more recent where of the poètes as Chaucer and Spencer benefit of the mécénat Alaska .
rough Jonson seems have was the similarly official of Charles Ier in 1617 , but the as present , in English laureate , was of the used currency and Roman of rewarding of laurier , has was " for the first time to John crash in 1670 .
small fact anecdotique in from , honourable senators ; to a time of , John crash was fought a time by of the opposed political because that he had wrote a pamphlet that they not had not loved ; the time was dangerous , even for a similarly .
these past years , the duties protocolaires of the as have was éliminées in a broad legislation .
the successors immédiats of crash have was Thomas Shadwell , Nahum Tate , Nicholas Rowe , Laurence Eusden , Colley Cibber , William Whitehead , Thomas Warton , Henry Pye and Robert Southey .
the most of these poètes , honourable senators , the successors of Jonson and of crash , were which as of the écrivaillons ; they are now cup in the oversight , and human not the reads more .
William Wordsworth , of 1843 to 1850 , and Leduc , Lord Tennyson , of 1850 to 1892 , have was of the candidates authentiques and meritorious - even the they not have prepared no of their major his for that they assumaient the duties of similarly official .
Leduc Austin , of 1892 to 1913 , is piece in the oversight , to fair as of the notice of some students in literature English .
John Masefield , of 1930 to 1967 , has was popular to the time , but he is now piece in the oversight .
Cecil Day - Lewis , of 1968 to 1972 , has composed of Gallery similarly who are still surviving , but he is particularly known of our days because that he is the father of the acteur Daniel Day - Lewis .
John Betjeman , who has served these duties of 1972 to 1984 and which the Fame not was not extraordinary to the time , has however was a excellent criticism in s of her .
as Hughes , who has tenure these duties of 1984 to 99 , that God has the soul , has was the better similarly official since Tennyson .
even the he not was not also drama that the great similarly of the time victorienne , he has probably was a better similarly official .
Hughes is became similarly official only after that Philip Larkin , considered by good number as the better similarly British of the 50 past years , has refused these duties .
even the he was our sea as similarly , the most of the to that Hughes has snitch for that he was similarly official have was tarred to the point of in be ridiculed .
Hughes has tenure the role of similarly official for 14 years , until to his death in October 1998 . cases the case of Hughes , he the is acted of a appointment to life récompensée by a pension of sherry et100 books .
I hope that we can to better that that , Senator Grafstein .
Andrew Motion , the new similarly official of the Britain - Britain has was chosen by the Prime Minister Tony Blair .
Mr. . Motion was perceived as the more conventional of the many candidates suggérés and the choice has ' a term to the about loose for the traditionalistes that which Tony Blair , the Prime Minister turned to the modernité , would could suspending of the authors what in favour of a " similarly of the people " .
Sir Paul McCartney , of the Beatles , was a of the names mentioned in this context .
the similarly official of the Britain - Britain is still approved by the Queen , but chosen to from of a short list by the Prime Minister .
the similarly chosen must write of the to on the family Royal and for of major opportunities national and of major ceremonies .
then that of many poètes mentioned as candidates to the as have priesthood before this prerequisite , Motion had demonstrated his very good will in writing of him - even a poem on the death of the princesse of Galles .
the similarly Carol Ann Duffy , of Glasgow , has said that if it had was taken , it would refused of celebrate in to of the events Commanding as the wedding of the reportedly Edward and of Sophie Rhys - Jones .
it has said to the newspaper The Guardian :
no similarly who the respect not should have to the to .
this as allows of to as of other things interesting .
he must the ask if that could be dangerous in the context Canadian the of the diversity of our country .
be can the ask if a similarly as Gaston Miron , by example , would happy of write a poem for the family Royal .
we could can - be eliminate the need of write of the similarly to the about of the state .
I think that this would a not in the good leadership .
the Committee could wish to this proposal .
this is the seaway that the Americans have taken with success .
when the last similarly official is death in Britain - Britain , of many other poètes have left know that the as not the we not .
the reason , this is that the most of between them not want not with this as , of the fact that the tradition to that the Incumbent écrive of the similarly for the state .
the late similarly irlandais Michael Hartnett has already said that the poetry was a act of rébellion .
the similarly Paul Durcan is became a friend very it of Mary Gairey and he has composed a poem for the nomination to the Speaker of the Republic of Ireland , but Paul is the exception rather that the rule .
Seamus Heaney has past any his life to write of the similarly who not recognize not the state - for of the reasons evident well heard .
when a journalist of the New York Times has called Craig Raine , a similarly of Oxford for him ask the he was interested to become the next similarly official of the Britain - Britain , he the is exclamé : " Oh my God , not " and he has raccroché .
Andrew Motion , who had crié on all the totalled that he convoitait the employment , has said that he occupation this as as " a challenge extremely complex and interesting for a similarly . "
he has said :
I think that I to to in value the responsibilities traditional who consistent to write of the similarly for of the opportunities royal , including , but that I wish also many to diversify the employment or , of the least , to write of the similarly with of the themes national more broader which I to also speak .
he has said that he wanted in particular promote the poetry to the school .
he the is an of not never write of similarly who be " simply flagorneurs and sentimentaux " .
motion in to Islington , the Headquarters of the North of London where vivait Blair before of dramatically his pénates to the 10 , Downing Wall .
he has fact his studies to Oxford , and Canada the chaire of drafting calls to the University of East Anglia , to Norwich .
he has released nine kit of to , prepared a biography of Keats " by the criticism and won the price Whitbread for his biography of Larkin , a similarly who has refused the as of similarly official .
certainly , the as in as that such not is not Regional given in high believe , but the , for the allocations risk of significant a great interest .
the paris from are took parWilliam Hill , the key agency of paris of the Britain - Britain .
addition Ms Duffy , the list of candidates includes Seamus Heaney , Derek Walcott , Wendy Cope , Benjamin Zephaniah , James Fenton , Tom Paulin etGeoffrey Hill .
in a editorial saluant the choice of Motion , the Times of London has said of him that he was
... a similarly to the understanding quiet , of a unkind humanity and of a force lyrique .
the implement is characteristically British , be maker of the sea and of the marais salants , of losses personal and of the past national .
honourable senators , I am aware of the time , but I wanted when even out that the as of similarly drafts have to the Library of the Congress is the equivalent American .
the as has was based in 1938 to as of chaire of poetry , then , in 1984 , he has was changed for drafts .
among the poètes from of the States - United , be that Robert Penn Warren , Richard Wilbur , Howard Nemerov , Mark Strand , Joseph Brodsky , Mona Van Duyn , Rita Dove , Robert Hass and Robert Pinsky .
in 1984 , Robert Penn Warren has was appointed Prime similarly drafts of the States - United for a office of a year by the Library of the Congress .
the appointment duration a year , but it is registration .
many , said - be , have trend to there that the Americans have more of opportunity that the Britanniques with their similarly official , primarily because that he plays a role many more Conduct .
, my notice , honourable , this is a well better role that , who the limit to tragic of the to for the events from .
in conclusion , honourable senators , I as that , to my notice , the bill of bill S - 5 is a good idea who deserves that be the is carefully .
he would can - be good of the ask if the as " similarly official " is the more appropriate .
, the States - United , he the Order the " Poète ' of the Library of the Congress " .
some poètes Canadian that I have consulted for the preparedness of these notes have proposed of the by of nature least our , more sensibles or culturellement neutres as " Poète in residence to the Library of the Parliament " or " Poète Parliamentary in residence to the Library national " .
of other find the terminologie used in the bill Bill S - 5 a little dépassée .
this is a point which the Committee who will responsible of to this bill of bill want can - be reflect .
the Committee should also study the nature of the Committee of selection proposed .
he would can - be good that a similarly in it part .
he would can - be good also of to as to of the associations of poètes as The League of Canadian Poets , The Writers' Union of Canada , The Canadian Authors Association , The Regional Writers Association and of other .
the hon. Eymard G . Corbin :
honourable senators , I like inform the House that I have the intention of to my contribution to the debate , but more later .
can - be the Senator Hays would - he adjourn the debate ?
( on the motion of the Senator Hays , the debate is adjourned . )
the Act on the Immigration
bill of bill Amend - Second Reading - Adjourned of the debate
the hon. Senator Ghitter )
- honourable senators , I like speak today today in the debate to the step of the second Reading of the bill Bill S - 8 , amend the Act on the Immigration , presented by my colleague of the west of the Canada , the Senator Ron Ghitter .
the system ' in place for facilitate the Presented and the review of the bills of bill Senate is the a of the aspects positive of our Rules .
when I LaMarsh my for in the other House , - and I know that , to all for practices , the even regulation the applies - for that a bill of bill of initiative privacy can be debated to the step of the second Reading , he him was from to the across of a sure number of filtres .
he not the product virtually never in the other place that a bill of bill of initiative privacy can preferred the step of the second Reading and be referred to a Committee .
the bill of bill to the study today today has the deserves of be concision and of Reading aisée .
I urge urge all those that the question interest to the in you a copy .
I am of , sure that this is already something made .
I hope that , after that we in will someone little debated to the step of the second Reading , the bill of bill S - 8 will referred to the Committee .
I think that he deserves that be there implementation of the time , not would - this that for exposing the difficulties inhérentes to the structure current of the system of Immigration and of reaction of the refugees to the Canada .
the bill of bill S - 8 not is not unknown of the honourable senators who were of the how to the fall 1987 .
he resumed the text of the bill of bill C - - that the Parliament had adopted to the time .
the bill of bill C - - not is more in effect since the 1 July 1989 .
the bill of bill S - 8 allows the Minister of the Immigration to - to a at of enter in the waters domestic or the sea territorial of the Canada and , if this at is was in the waters domestic or the sea territorial of the Canada , he can order that he be escorté to the port of débarquement the more it .
he the is well heard of further who transportent to their on , or are revelations of move to their on , a human in contravention of the Act on the Immigration or of his regulations .
if the at the is in the waters domestic of the Canada or in the limit of three miles and that , of new , the Minister of the Immigration has of good reasons of think that the at transporte of the people who wish enter to the Canada in violant the Act on the Immigration or the regulation , it can lead this at to the port the more it for débarquer those who are to on .
this bill of bill has was presented in his form original in 1987 to the on of two events .
in 1986 and 1987 , two further law of clandestins are upon to the Canada .
on the Prime the were of the Tamouls ; they have accosté in Nova - Nova in 1986 .
on the second the were of the Criminal of the Indes orientales ; they have accosté to Newfoundland - Newfoundland in 1987 .
we have now case to of the further law of clandestins who come of China and who come on our Coast west ; they are led by of the trafiquants or of the passeurs .
honourable senators , I me trouvais to the other place during of the Adopted of the predecessor of the bill of bill S - 8 .
those who the opposed to the Adopted of the bill of bill C - - , to the time , affirmaient that he was achievable .
I say that we must find a way of to in so that he works .
even the he must make of the reporters on the ships in sea before of the detract or approach to of other means , we must find a way .
I believe that the Canada must send a message clear to of accepting those who would from of the profits of the routing of cargaisons human .
as all the senators the in remember , the events of the was last to the broad of the Coast of the British - British have irrité the Canadians because that we have had the sense that be profitait of the system of Immigration - and of refugees - the more open to the world .
the Canadians want that the government whether and say to these combinards who were enter of the clandestins to the Canada in of the further délabrés that we not tolérerions not of such actions of violation of our laws .
the government not has nothing fact .
unfortunately , he not has not took of measures for accepting these at .
the Minister of the Immigration has announced , he there has two weeks , that it would a new bill of bill on the Immigration to the other place during the new year .
a study of this bill of bill , in this chamber for the second Reading and to the Committee , we will to prepare the new bill on the Immigration .
I have forward of continue the debate on this bill of bill and of listen , I the hope , the interventions of the senators who live close of the coasts Canadian .
honourable senators , this is to insult to the people who expect of be admises to the Canada in as that immigrants legal .
we , Canadians , not can not to of more a gift to the world that the citizenship Canadian .
the sovereignty of our country ahead , to the further , in our ability of monitor our border .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I move the adjournment of the debate .
the hon. Eymard G . Corbin :
honourable senators , I understand that the be move the adjournment of the debate , but I me ask how we in are upon to to this debate for begin .
the motion is placed to the behalf of the Senator Ghitter .
we in are to the fourteenth day of debate and a other Senator has took the speak the Prime to this about .
this is the privilege absolute of the Senator who to to a question of this nature of take the speak the Prime .
I know if the senator Germain spoke to the behalf of the Senator Ghitter .
I i that they the are spoke .
the senator Germain bedtime - he the remarks of the Senator Ghitter ?
is - this this who is came ?
the senator Germain :
not of the all , honourable senators .
I was in my behalf own .
I have said to the Senator Ghitter that I would take the speak to this about .
he the in is has to I , me can of be the Prime to take the speak to the step of the second Reading .
I have before this opportunity .
if that breach to the Rules of the Senate , I am sure that , the with of our own legislature , as of other the have already said , we able correct the situation .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , for clarify the things , I say that the senator Germain has proposed the motion to the behalf of the Senator Ghitter .
all that is therefore consistent to the Rules .
the senator Germain had the Authorized of the Senator Ghitter for proceed of this manner .
( on the motion of the Senator Hays , the debate is adjourned . )
the ascertain tabled pursuant to the Act on the transport to the Canada Motion of the discussions on a proposal of the sector private to the Purchase of a society air - Report of the Committee of the transport and of the Communications - Adjourned of the debate
the Senate on to the study of the second report of the Committee Senate Standing of the transport and of the Communications ( restructuring of the industry of the transportation Air ) , presented to the Senate the 9 December 99 . - ( - hon. Senator Bacon ) .
the hon. Lise Bacon :
honourable senators , I wish to thank the vice - chairman of the Committee , the Senator Forrestall , and that all the senators who have in to the business of this Committee .
for two months , the senators have listened carefully the evidence of different groups who the are made before our Committee .
we the have reported and we have discussed with seriously of all the aspects broader in the report .
I believe that we can be proud of the work that we have accomplished .
our report is balanced and reflects the views of the witnesses heard .
the members of the Committee can be proud of be upon to the across of the that to speak of a even Senators , this who is still a time of the quality of the business of the Senate .
by these recommendations , the Committee has wanted protect the interests of the Canadians of all the regions of the country .
the members of the Committee Senate Standing of the transport and of the Communications attentive that these recommendations will to the Canadians , as in a future immediate that further , a service Air effective , Motor and affordable .
we have also was for that lesarticles 64 and 65 of the Act on the transport to the Canada be renforcés for ensure that the transporteur cluster assure the service currently offered to the communities Canadian .
our recommendation to the about of the bilingualism , to know that all the services available to the public by the transporteur cluster and his switching be subject to the Act on the languages official , reflects also our will that be amorphous the services essential are the Canadians have the right of the expect .
, the like of the Board of the competition , the members of the Committee have expressed their concern before the absence possible of competition in the industry air to the Canada .
this is why several of our recommendations profit in part or totally the suggestions made by the Board of the competition .
the Committee recommends that the transporteur cluster the commitment to independently of the créneaux Commission in of the cities key for to that he there has a competition real .
the Committee recommends also to Transport Canada of develop a new framework regulatory on the créneaux for ensure that they be over the they not are not used and that a number sufficient be over to the new for on the market .
in the purpose of help the grandchildren carriers to to a competition enough , the Committee ask that the government review the system informatisé of réservations to of in eliminate the makes who désavantagent the grandchildren carriers .
be should also require the transporteur cluster to to to the new for on the market of buy of the points of fidélisation of the great travellers to a price reasonable .
he should also be given of negotiate of the agreements inter - companies and of the agreements of sharing of the codifies to of the conditions reasonable with the new arrivants on the market within who wish conclude of such agreements .
the Committee has discussed in long and in broad of the possible of to the competition of the companies foreign on the soil Canadian .
he has rejected the concept of cabotage rejection , but has expressed a sure interest for the rights of sixth freedom .
he has therefore recommended that the government negotiating with the States - United for to the sales of depository between two points to the Canada the he there has port in a city of the States - United .
the Committee hope that the industry air Canadian become finally prosperous .
this is why he the is some record to the argument of several , be that he be better of increase the increase property the participation individuelle in actions votantes in Air Canada .
a does more great of the actions would , that some , the effect of increase the performance financial of the business .
in a country covering a if broader territory , the industry air not is not a luxury , but a need .
this is a of the reasons for which we have felt good of limit to 20 per the participation individuelle in actions votantes in Air Canada .
a increase of 20 per will to the shareholders of better follow the performance of the management of the business , all in property the risk of a taken of control foreign .
of other on , a increase of more of 25 per of the participation foreign of Air Canada could to in calling the control Canadian of our more important transporteur national .
by , , the Committee the concern of the fate should to the employees will by the restructuring in over .
we asking to the government of insist with of the transporteur cluster for that the employees have right to a treatment fair in this who has with to the interparliamentary of the service and to the conditions of departure if a such something the avérait necessary .
a attention particular should be granted to the cherished of rotunda .
finally , the Committee is of notice that if the government to ensure a followed effective of the commitments that he require of the transporteur cluster , he will ask that the parliamentary of the accountable the snapshots in the framework of a forum public , as , by example , of the hearings held a time by year by the Board of the transport of the Canada , in cooperation with the Board of the competition , and that the result of these hearings be referred to the Committee of the transport of the House of the Commons and to the Committee Senate Standing of the transport and of the Communications .
honourable senators , I believe that this is a good report .
we not cherchions not to protect the interest of the shareholders , but rather those of all the consumers across to the Canada .
the members of the Committee have debated liberalized several questions .
, the across of the that , we have succeeded to to a report balanced who is of the quality of the business of the Senate .
still a time , this report is how the Senate can play the role of institution Parliamentary independent .
I so tribute to all the senators who have attended to our meetings and in to our business .
this are them who have record this report possible .
the hon. J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , I am happy of speak today today in the debate on the report of the Committee Standing " Restructuration of the industry of the transportation Air to the Canada " .
be can to what this as of exactly .
he millions however the as of a document that must write the Senate or the other place of here little .
honourable senators , I wish to congratulate the chairman of the Committee , the Senator Bacon , for the way which it has led the hearings public and the sittings that has nécessitées the drafting of the report .
he is difficult of to of the hearings and of write a report when the situation that be is changing constantly .
this is specifically this who the is product for that the Committee was his business .
the Senator Bacon has fact a excellent work and deserves all my congratulations .
be has often accused the government of not not act , of let let , of be of ideas new , of benefit of the accomplishments of the governments nation and , since the Tabled of the recent bill of bill on the had , of create of the time that where he not there in had not .
seriously however , this much and this inability of be the problems not have never was also apparentes that in the matter of the transportation Air to the Canada .
the possible of a only transporteur cluster or of a monopoly we menaçait since a good across of time .
this not is that when the itself - saying " crisis " is become imminente that the government has tried of act .
he has rayé of the matter a of the agencies to the Canada who includes really well the questions with the competition .
I about here , well heard , of the Board of the competition of the Canada .
the government has suspended his participation to the merger and , by the on , to the offer public of Purchase part by Onex , who not the is not In .
we must we ask why the government has acted and .
the response is simple :
we not the know not .
what dérangement extraordinary the announced for the system of transportation national ?
of what elements probants disposait the Minister ?
we not the know not .
particularly , this who any well more , this is that not a only of the witnesses , are we have yet asked the question , not has could answer to a of these questions .
is can - be why the Committee has an that he not was not fully sure that the use to the section 47 of the Act on the transport national was indicated in this situation .
honourable senators , we have could we stop that .
we have fact ignored of the reality of the undergoing who the opéraient and who the opèrent always in the sector in this time even .
the Minister has asked to the it of the questions on the direction and , in the framework of our research of a solution to the question Current , section 47 , we have also heard of the evidence on all these direction .
a of the objectives personal that I poursuivais was to remind to the members of the Committee that the commitment of the government precedent , all as , of the government present , was the deregulation and not the while .
the interest public must be sufficient , but not to the way of a framework regulatory .
our postponement reflects the conclusion that which , of way general , the Board of the competition should be the body responsible of protect the interest public in the transport air to the Canada .
kidding to the agency of the transport of the Canada the task of ensure to the security of the new businesses and of the new lines air , but let to the Board of the competition the questions related to the monopolies requiring the protection of the public .
that will the transfer of the agency national of the transport to the Board of the competition of a section of the agency Telecommunication the expertise in this field , but this should be a business commercial .
honourable senators , my colleagues and I have was impressionnés by the work made in little of time by the Board of the competition to this regard .
in fact , our report on the industry of the transportation Air , now to the study , the based in great part of the report of the office .
the suggestion that the office has made of ensure the competition is full of imagination , this who is that he can respond quickly to a situation .
the speed of reaction is of a importance crucial for a industry who require the Investment of billion of $ in capital and the determination immediate of the time where the resources financial should be net and of what way .
that given of the time which he disposait , the Committee has made a work credible .
I not inalienable not in the detail of the recommendations , because I not would that repeat in well of the case this that we come of hear of the mouth of the chairman .
I me outline of say that we have could to more in detail the question of the divestiture of the companies air regional by the transporteur beyond of a monopoly .
this is a question on which the Board of the competition should reflect more profoundly , because he appropriate of such the divestiture of the companies air regional .
I about in the here of competition .
the Canada is a broader country .
some parties not are availability by air that to some times of the year .
we must ensure the access Air to the regions vital of our country , little any the outcome of the discussions current on the acquisition of companies air .
well course , I included in the definition of " vital " these regions of the Canada faiblement peuplées as the within of the British - British , the provinces of the Atlantic and of other still .
in addition , the Committee not has not expressed also cleansing that I the would wanted , or that the Senator Roberge the would wanted , the Opposition to the proposal Air Canada - Hamilton .
a transporteur monopolistique exploitant a company air little little , without boondoggles , in a great city of the centre of the Canada , would surely people any competition of the on of other companies air who can projeter or had could projeter of establish a service analogue in this region or any other region of the Canada .
honourable senators , he is needless , in this time , of to of the conjectures on the role puzzling that has played in all that the Minister of the Transport .
he enough of say that he not there no policy .
the need of point the section 47 of the Act on the transport to the Canada , then that he not there no evidence that we are could was , it to the history the be of to the role and the lack of leadership of the Minister .
this who any now , honourable senators , this is that the Minister of the Transport whether for protect the interests of the travellers of the Canada against of the price insisting , the withdrawal of services and , particularly , a - of the standards of security .
he would advantage to to carefully and to to in implement the recommendations of the Committee Senate Standing of the transport and of the Communications who listed in the report on the restructuring of the industry of the transportation Air .
I you thank of your attention .
I like adjourn the debate to the behalf of the Senator Johnson , if that is acceptable .
( on the motion of the Senator Forrestall , to the behalf of the Senator Johnson , the debate is adjourned . )
Economy Economy , Budgets and Administration
Adopted of the second report of the Committee
the Senate on to the study of the second report of the Committee Standing of the Economy Economy , of the Budgets and of the Administration ( situation budget of the committees ) , presented to the Senate 9 December 99 . - ( - hon. Senator Rompkey , P ) .
the hon. Pierre Claude Nolin :
honourable senators , I move the Adopted of this report .
( the motion is agreed , and the report is adopted . )
the Estimates of the Estimates of 99 - 2000
Authorized to the Committee of the Finance national of study the Estimates of the Estimates
the order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Murray , P , seconded by the hon. Senator Beaudoin :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Finance national be authorized to study , to of in to report , the Estimates expenditures in the Estimates of the Estimates for the year financial the ending the 31 March 2000 ; and
that the Committee its the report to the more later 31 March 2000 ,
and on the motion of amendment of the hon. Senator Robichaud , P ( St. - Louis - of - Kent ) , seconded by the hon. Senator Payette - Hervieux , P , that the motion be amended by adding , after the words " the Estimates of the Estimates for the year financial the ending 31 March 2000 " , of this who following :
" to the exception of the appropriation 1 , 5 and 10 of the Fisheries and Oceans ;
that the Committee Senate Standing of the fisheries be authorized to study the Estimates expenditures of the Fisheries and Oceans domain in the Estimates of the Estimates for the year the ending the 31 March 2000 ; and
that the Committee its the report to the more later 31 March 2000 . " - (
the hon. Senator Stollery ) .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , the Senator Murray not is not to the House .
the order has with to his motion and to the amendments made by the Senator Robichaud .
we could all of even deal of this question as now .
I wanted ask the notice of my counterpart , to know if we should the to in the absence of the Senator Murray .
the hon. John Lynch - Lynch ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
the hon. Fernand Robichaud :
we able there see all of on .
the Senator Hays :
if I have well including the arrangement , the Senator Robichaud was withdraw the amendment with the leave of the Senate of way to this that the be can to the motion of the Senator Murray .
the Senator Robichaud will to the first opportunity , probably tomorrow , a motion Requesting the referred of this part of the Estimates Main of the Estimates to the Committee of the fisheries , since he is of the Department of the Fisheries .
the hon. ë A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , if we things step by step , we will our purpose .
the Hon. the Speaker :
I not know not very well this that all that to say .
there has he a ask of withdrawal of the motion of amendment ?
withdrawal of the motion of amendment
the hon. Fernand Robichaud :
honourable senators , I like withdraw my motion of amendment to the motion of the hon. Senator Murray .
the hon. Roch Bolduc :
honourable senators , I like express the point of view of the Committee of the Finance national to this about .
I am to the aware of the question .
the Hon. the Speaker :
a moment .
the Senator Bolduc :
the Senator Murray not is not this .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the hon. Senator Robichaud , P , St. - Louis - of - Kent , ask to the Senate the leave of withdraw his motion of amendment .
the leave is - it granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion of amendment is withdrawn . )
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , we are of return to the motion of the hon. Senator Murray .
I am prepared to you listen , hon. Senator Bolduc .
the Senator Bolduc :
honourable senators , I not to not take the speak to the behalf of the Senator Murray , but I like out that the mandate General of the Committee Senate Standing of the Finance national has always was , except few reservations these past years , of study the together of the forecasts budget .
however , if a Committee particular , by example , the Committee Senate Standing of the agriculture or a other to look the programs of Estimates of the Department of the Agriculture , he not there has not of problem .
by against , the mandate not should not would the words " to the exception of " .
the Committee of the Finance national not taking not necessarily all the programs .
he attempts of study the Estimates of the Administration public federal in a perspective of policy administrative particularly , of so that the mandate not can not be CRTC .
this is in this sense that the Senator Murray would argumenter .
he there has a tradition who the ask since long .
he there has many of wisdom in that .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , there has he a desire of adjourn the motion key to the next Senate ?
the Senator Bolduc :
honourable senators , I ask the adjournment of the debate .
the hon. Senator Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I think that he is of to the motion to the Senators .
I have listened in that the Senator Bolduc .
when this point of the order of the day has was called , I have said that , to my notice , this question could be resolved enough easily in up as we the have fact .
, the future , he the can that this be a little more difficult .
I think that we must we to accommodants with the Department of the Finance national and this is a way of the to .
if the Committee of the fisheries examine the Estimates related to the Department of the Fisheries and of the Oceans , that your also to the ask of the Senator Robichaud without that that creates of seated with this that ask the Senator Murray .
that not to not say that be will always proceed and , but for the moment , this is a good solution , in the circumstances .
we should to the motion to the Senators .
the Hon. the Speaker :
you pleasure - he , honourable senators , of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe
the Organization for the security and the cooperation in Europe - Position eighteenth session Annual of the Assembly Parliamentary held to St. - Petersbourg , in Russia - Inquiry
the hon. Jerahmiel S . Grafstein , to of notice 30 November 99 :
that he call the attention of the Senate on the report of the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe to the eighteenth session Annual of the Assembly Parliamentary of the Organization for the security and the cooperation in Europe ( OSCE PA ) , held to St. - Petersbourg ( Russia ) of the 6 au10 July 99 .
then that we scenes of the new millennium , can - be was of way equitable briefly and of way amplification the policy foreign to the over of the last century ?
what is the objective of the policy foreign ?
he the is of to of the world a place more course and more peaceful where live .
yet , the War has dominé the policy foreign .
our century has began on a such note of hope .
he there a100 years , in 1899 , the tsar Nicholas II of Russia has , to from of St. - Petersbourg , initiated a call to the community international for the institution of a convention Honourable to limit the weapons to the level international and to create a new court international responsible of with the differences between the States by arbitrage consensuel .
he applauding that that apporterait the peace to the over of this new century , after the 19 century who had was dismantling by the War and who had has the death of 16 million of people .
more later this year - that , in 1899 , on the pressure of the tsar , a conference international has was convoquée to Position Hague .
in fact , this conference historic has for of establish of the limits international on the weapons and of is more particularly the bombs air , and that of establish a court international for arbitrer the differences between the States of way did .
unfortunately , least of a year more later , in 1900 , this message of hope has was outrageously .
the , to the over military has project .
the construction of cuirassés , of first by the Germany and then by the England , has heavy the , to the armements Among .
the outbreak of unrest in the Balkans has led to the war of the Balkans in 1912 and 1914 and has led then to the famous killing of the Arméniens .
he there has also had then the First War World and a new expression in the lexique of the death : War World .
in 1917 , the Quiet Russian has known .
then that 1918 marked the end of the First War World , the War between the Russia and the Poland has known and the unrest in Ireland the are aggravés .
a new word of hope has was added to the lexique of the death after the First War World by the chairman Woodrow Wilson : the autodétermination .
for this time , the agitation in China the is développée , conduisant to the War civil during the years 30 and 40 .
in URSS , in the years 30 , while that the windows communistes and of other in the world regardaient , the épurations massives of million of people the déroulaient to of maintain the monopoly of the power of the party bolchevique .
imitant the communism , the nazisme and the Droit étalaient their bannières much who animaient the occupation éthiopienne in Africa .
with the assistance of the Canada , the Corporation of the Nations has adamantly and the is enlisée .
then he there its the War of Spain and the conflict of the communism and of the Droit , conduisant to the Second War World , of first in Europe , then in Asia .
we we bravely of the holocauste .
he remains a something imagination .
we we bravely of the horror of Nagasaki and of Nagasaki .
in 1945 , the planet seemed épuisée by the horror of the War , but he not there has not had of corners in the massacres .
in starts 40 , of the révolutions have was there in Asia of the East , in Africa and in America of the South .
these years have seen unborn of the war without end to the Middle - East .
the years 50 we have made the War of Korea and the expedite of the War of Indochine .
the Hon. the Speaker :
Senator Grafstein , I am sorry of you interrupt , but he is 18 p.m. .
that wish the honourable senators ?
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
I move that His Hon. not taking not the hour .
the Hon. the Speaker :
is - this of agreed , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator Grafstein :
, the end of the years 50 , we have was witnesses of the revolution cubaine , Brazil followed by the revolution cultural Chinese , the War of the Vietnam , the massacres to the Cambodge and the war in Angola .
, the over of the years 60 , the Ireland the is of new enflammée , après8 decades of War .
the years 70 have seen up to the moins37 conflict important a little across to the world .
then are touring the years 80 with the War between the Iran and the Iraq to the over of which , in from , more of a million of people have was killed , there including of the children soldiers .
more of people have was killed to the over of this War that in all the war who have had place to the Middle - East since the beginning of the century , and all that for few kilometres of - .
the years 80 have was those of the War in Afghanistan , of the war tribales in Somalia , of the invasion of the Koweit by the Iraq who has led to the War of the Koweit , of the war tribales to the catalogued , to the heat , the long of the Congo and to the Sudan and of the beginning of the War civil in Indonesia , to the Timor oriental and that in America of the South and in America core .
honourable senators , this attainable list of war is far of be - .
however , he there has of the hope : the arid Soviet the is désintégré .
then the beautiful years 90 , the last decade is arrived , to the on of the further of the " Dickie " .
the collapse of the Yugoslavia , has by the separation created by the Western of the Croatia , has led to the war which we have was witnesses in Serbie , in Bosnia and finally to the Kosovo , and with all that to the impuissance of the Nations Nations .
, the there of the new millennium , be estimate that he there has still more of 24 war who are divisive to the world , particularly in Africa , but also in outlines .
in " in back , not seems he not that a good part of our lives to the over of the century who the work has was ponctuée of brief intermèdes between the war ?
where were - we before the War ?
that have - we fact between the war ?
that have - we fact to the over of the War of the Vietnam and and of on ?
our literature littéraires are refreshed of actions and of reactions to the various war .
why then should - we out the work of the OSCE and of other agencies dedicated to the democracy by of the means domains , when we not can we prevent of look in back on this century dismantling by the death , all that to the behalf of the state or of the faith ?
in 1994 , Zbigniew Brezinski , former - ' of the Speaker Carter in s of democracy , has seemed that he there had had 164 million of innocence victims and of soldiers dead to the over of this century .
I have I - even s that these violent affronts could have caused close of 200 million of dead to the over of the this century only .
each decade has was witness of a Among to the chapter of the violence technologique , of the tueries insensées , of the mutilations and of the destructions gratuites .
in this case , honourable senators , that must - we to ?
that can - we to ?
the condition human has it progressé to the over of this century ?
Tolstoï has yet fact of the remarks préliminaires .
he has wrote that we can simply hope aménager of small clairières in a dense forest .
this is this that we have tried to the OSCE since the agreed of Helsinki he there has a Diori of years .
this agreed has replaced the uniqueness sanctity of the sovereignty of the state by the uniqueness sanctity of the individual .
in a speech simply remarkable that he has persistent recently , the Secretary General of the Nations Nations , Kofi Annan , has recognized the about of the UN and of his States members who have adopted of the resolutions to to preserve of the areas seemingly , as the UN the had fact in 1995 to Srebrenica , of so that by the on the community international had passivement was witness of the killing serbe of more of 7 . victims innocence who , graduated the words of the community international , the were advanced under the flag supports and white of the Nations Nations only for be massacrées under the i of the caméras of television .
recently , we have examined the resolutions of the UN regarding the Timor oriental and préconisant strongly the independence , then we have seen the UN look immobile the killing of the third of the public who was that the UN would such the respect of his resolutions .
the resolutions of the Nations Nations have - they took the ground of slaughter of the Timor oriental where more of 200 . people of this territory appauvri have was killed by the Oath of the state of the Indonesia ?
the s is the more a compliment .
the action of the NATO to the Kosovo has guest the Russia to the follow in Tchétchénie .
the history fact shame .
the number of the dead is past of five million to the devastation century to 16 million to the 19 century , then to to the least 200 million to the 20 century .
the late Cecil Augustus Wright , dean of the Faculty of right that I have fréquentée , has citéM. the Justice Felix Frankfurter to the openness of the Faculty of right of the University of Toronto in 1967 .
is this that he has said :
also fragile that is the reason and also limited that is the right in as that expression of the médium institutionnalisé of the reason , this is all this who we harsh of the tyranny of the simple will and of the Trapping of a spirit débridé and indiscipliné .
yet , we have learned that the principle of the over of the right not worth nothing the he not is not étayé by the power .
this is that the unfortunate rebirth of the 20 century .
honourable senators , not should - we not wish for the next millennium that the over of the right complying the uniqueness sanctity of the life must the standard rather that the exception , and that it be formulate by the will and the power of the political ?
yet the optimism not rime to nothing when the States - United , first super - Oath and Leader world of the democracy , say of sign a agreed international can to a court international of continue of the criminals of War , or a agreed of control of the armements by , or even a treaty property the armament nuclear .
this was of bad for for the peace World in the years 90 .
we must we ressaisir and hope that , for the next millennium , we will in legislation of we invent a century better that , which we have inherited and that we have effect .
honourable senators , Elie Elie who , before that that not earner the favour popular , has " the flame of the remember in this century barbare , has recently released And the Sea is Never Full , the second volume of his you .
he we remind that , in the Genèse , when Balzile has fui the than after have mordu in the result defended , the Senators of God the Charest hear : " Balzile , where role - you ? "
if indeed God is across and that he is omniscient , why would - he them to know where the people Balzile ?
be we assure that God knew where the people Balzile .
god wanted that Balzile him say him - even where he the people and this that he had fact .
where we situons - we we - same in the history ?
that have - we fact of our life ?
each of we can there answer to his manner .
we must back in question the work accomplished by each of the organizations succeeds for the regulation peaceful of the differences .
I can hope that the response who we will given to the century next will more interesting that the of the this century .
can the next generation we surpasser .
the short from for this century - this not is recognize not very high .
there has he a truth more his which we not we not that in s of policy foreign ?
in these two were ahead can - be a solution to the énigme of the barbarie enfouie to the heart of the condition human .
the professor Pagels fact the light on the origins of the démonisation of the " other " of first exercée by a faith , imitée then by the state séculier .
we not do that begin to canvassing the causes of the difficulty who lives in the heart of the men and of the women .
the difficulty is - he gravé more profoundly and of manner indélébile in the spirit of those who hold the power and who have yet silent , inertes or , worse , indifferent to the actions of barbarie made against of other under their own be ?
is - this that the strange moral of the last millennium - see without act - and the hope for the next millennium - of the words assorties to the actions ?
not there has he not a rebirth surréaliste in this that I advocating ?
I soutiens that the War sème the death and yet , I advocating that the be it still the War for maintain the peace , this who me brings to the aspect énigmatique of my own findings for the 20 century .
Sunday last , the writer American Joseph Heller , author of Catch 22 , is who .
of after a criticism :
honourable senators , I me would of quote here a short a of the Orwell Catch 22 :
" you to say that he there has a attrape ? "
" well course that he there has a attrape " , réponditDoc.
" be not in fate not .
all those who want avoid the service borne not are not really crossed . "
he not there had that a attrape and this was that be weakening of any way , to from of the time where the preoccupied of his security in opposite of dangers real and immédiats is the fact of a spirit rationnel .
Orr could stay to land because that he was about .
he him Corel of the ask ; but , as that he the asked , he cessait of be about and was chamber of other missions .
Orr would was about of chamber of other missions and fair of not not the to , but the he was widest of spirit , he was the to .
the he the was , he was about and not had not to the to ; but the he not wanted not the to , he was widest of spirit and he was the to .
Yossarian was completely bouleversé by the so simplicity of this impasse and been a sifflement admiratif .
" this is any a impasse " , observa he .
" the more great " , acquiesçaDoc.
honourable senators , this is this that I then say of better in this end of century and of millennium remarkable .
the Hon. the Speaker good tempore :
if no other Senator not to take the speak , I unless the debate on this inquiry debated .
the Ontario
the hon. Marie - P Poulin , to of notice Thursday 9 December 99 :
that it call the attention of the Senate on the decision of the government of the Ontario of not not adopt a recommendation to to to of Ottawa a city bilingual after his restructuring proposed .
the Thursday 9 December , I have tabled a notice of inquiry .
why the government of the Ontario has he chosen of not not follow the recommendation of the aviseur , Mr. Glen Shortliffe ?
what message does be to the Canadians of our country ?
what respect demonstrates be for the Constitution of the Canada ?
what recognition would be to the reality of the minorities linguistic of the Ontario , of the Quebec , of the provinces are , of the Western and of the Grand North ?
what respect are - be for Ottawa , seat of the Parliament Canadian , of the service public federal , of the celebrating of the world around ?
honourable senators , several of between we pocket speak on the many questions raised by my inquiry , between other the Senator Jean - Robert Gauthier .
honourable senators , écoutons the Senator Gauthier .
Ses40 years of commitment to the principle basic of the respect of the history of our country and of the uniqueness over of our two crops fondatrices we will very useful in this inquiry .
between - time , I not my comments of further for my speech who will end to this inquiry , more later .
the hon. Jean - Robert Gauthier :
honourable senators , I like of first of first thank the Senator Poulin of his kindness and of his good words .
this is a about enough Laurentian and , for be well Summer , frustration .
in as that human born to Ottawa , which to Ottawa and there to lived any his life , I is this debate difficult .
the 6 December last , the government of the Ontario has presented a bill of bill regarding the merger of municipalities in Ottawa - Carleton and of other regions in Ontario , for in to of the cities unique .
the legislation regarding the region of Ottawa - Carleton based in great part on the report Mr. Glen Shortliffe , expert - board who had was appointed by the province for study the reform local .
the report , record public the 26 November 99 , contained of many recommendations regarding the new quoted .
a of these recommendations proposed that the new quoted of Ottawa , amalgamée , be institutionnellement bilingual .
however the province , in the bill of bill , not has not chosen this recommendation by of the capital of the country a city officially bilingual .
the legislation said that : " a time the quoted hosted , it will the power of decide of his own political linguistic " .
in the report on the restructuring , Mr. Shortliffe recommends that the quoted of Ottawa , this is the new behalf official , be bilingual .
in the preface of the report , he said that the region is a " imperfect unique " of francophones and of English in this region .
he only his recommendation in writing :
a of the questions the more important raised during the consultation public was the question of the bilingualism institutional .
more of 15 per of the new wrote of Ottawa will French .
Ottawa is a city unique in this province and in this country because it is the capital of the Canada .
our nation has two languages official , be the knows .
the government national works that the Act on the languages official ; the English and the French .
the capital national must dawn the uniqueness of all the country and must recognize the presence in his public of a important minority French .
in make , I quote encoreM. Shortliffe in the report :
I recommends that the bill enabling - and studs the wrote of Ottawa officially bilingual , in French and in English .
I must note Mr. Shortliffe has , of way explicit , recommended that the new quoted be plants bilingual by the Parliament of the Ontario and not not by the new board of the pay of Ottawa .
of more , Mr. Shortliffe has noted that he will of the resort of the senior board of the quoted of Ottawa of determine the scope and the nature of the services who will available in the two languages official of the country .
he is true that , in the Constitution Canadian , the regulatory of the governments municipal is fully of juridiction provincial .
in the case of the region of Ottawa - Hull , he there has a other level of authority established by the government federal who the Order the Board of the capital national , this is - to - say the region of the capital national .
the bill créa the Board of the capital national , who succédait to the Board of the District federal .
the authority of create the region of the capital national has was established by the power constitutional résiduel , be " Statutes for the peace , the order and the good government of the Canada " .
he there has several options available can of correct this decision of the province of the Ontario regarding the bilingualism in the capital federal .
the courts will the in serve for clarify this question .
I not am not lawyer , but I am sure that he there will of the difficulties .
the Parliaments provincial have the authority of adopt of the laws regarding the municipalities .
the government of the Ontario was free of accept or of reject the recommendation Mr. Shortliffe .
all of even , the recent decision of the courts of the Ontario regarding the Health Monfort could serve of argument in the any .
you know all that ladite decision of the Court divisionnaire has was scope in call and I hope that be réussira to obtain justice a day in this who with the services of health in Ontario .
the 29 November 99 , the Court divisionnaire of the Ontario , in a judgment unanimous , has rejected the blundering of the Board on the restructuring of the services of health , who had ordered the closure of the Health fought as Hospital General for in to a bigger donor .
the court has said that the Health fought was necessary to the legislation of the community French in the province of the Ontario .
the court has said that the commission not was not free of ignore the role constitutional that plays the Health fought as centre really French necessary to the promotion and to the development of the identity franco - Ontario .
the minority French of the Ontario is a interests cultural and linguistic and it has need of his institutions who base his culture and his language against the assimilation .
the judges have should that the government of the Ontario the must of respect the principle of the protection of the minorities in all his actions .
they were of agreed for say that the francophones have a right constitutional the perpetuate against the assimilation , because they are part of a community cultural to the Canada and are the a of the two groups linguistic which the rights are enchâssés in the Constitution .
the court stated , and I quote :
... ... ... the of that the principle of the protection of the minorities - including the protection of the minority French - is a principle independent who under - parliament the Constitution and who has a effect contraignant on the governments , the court must speak , when he there has place , for ensure a protection against the measures government who will to the with of this principle .
some it the decision made in the case of the Health fought as a example unacceptable of militantisme judicial .
the National Financial has public to this about .
if you are it , will - there , but not you choquez not .
by against , of other feel that it offer can - be a weapon puissante for the protection of the rights of the minorities .
the decision the s widely of the two judgments that the Court Supreme of the Canada has people recently the a , in the case of the Renvoi on the Stinson of the Quebec and the other in the case Beaulac , judgments in which it has as the right of a man of the British - British to a proceedings bilingual .
we apprenions yesterday that the Board of restructuring of the services of health asked the Authorized of interjeter call of the decision made by the Court divisionnaire to the about of the Health fought .
the government has said that he support without contingency this call .
even if a action in justice not succeeds not to require the government of the Ontario to designate the new city of Ottawa as officially bilingual , it could serve to of the for of policy public .
it would certainly for effect of better to know the question .
if it was delay the consolidation of the municipalities regional , of the pressure the exerceraient on the government provincial ; by against , it risk of to the Opposition and the ranks of those who held to with a time for all the question of the consolidation .
the Senate has for subject of represent the regions of the country and particularly of protect the minorities .
a motion could be tabled to the Senate Requesting to the government of the Ontario of designate the new city of Ottawa as officially bilingual .
, this regard , he is to note that the Assembly national of the Quebec has adopted a motion similar .
the Parliament federal can not not would the get of a case clear provincial ; by against , the government of the Ontario not am not to the get of the Affairs federal in s tax .
he we fact of the recommendations quasiment to all the days for cut the taxes .
if this not is not of the with provincial , I not know not this that this is .
addition that he there has a minority French appréciable in the region of Ottawa , the courts recognize of more in more the protection of the minorities as a principle under - concert of the Constitution , a principle who has a value constitutional .
the recent judgment regarding the Health fought was on the question of know if the education French was be replaced by a institution bilingual .
the bill of consolidation of the city of Ottawa , by against , not with that the question of the bilingualism .
however , he is significant that some of the municipalities who will regroupées , including , Vanier , Gloucester and Cumberland , have a public French appréciable and that a long tradition of bilingualism official .
the lack of protection of these communities in the new city raises of the questions similar to those that raised the case of the Health fought .
be could always let the new city of Ottawa decide if it wish be said officially bilingual .
it could choose of not not the to or to more later on his decision .
for more of safety , he at better that the bill provincial enabling with of the question .
the question of the bilingualism can be very problems , as in the case of the case David Levine and the of the Health fought .
he would more responsible of the on of the government of the Ontario of to evidence of leadership in décidant of designate as the departure the city regroupée as officially bilingual .
the report Mr. Shortliffe is carefully prepared and affordably .
as he the unless , the uniqueness French and English of the region fact part of his imperfect unique .
the government of the Ontario should to in implement this important recommendation .
in the decision that it has made in the case Monro , in 1966 , the Court Supreme of the Canada establishes clear the power of the government federal on the region of the capital national .
this is that someone something who should or who already topic Ottawa of his about and of the other regions of the Ontario .
the Court Superior of the Ontario has of more reminded the four principles who under - tend our Constitution : the democracy , the federalism , the constitutionnalisme and the protection of the minorities , particularly the minority French .
these principles have was through by the Court Supreme of the Canada in the causes denials lines , the Renvoi of the Stinson of the Quebec and the case Beaulac .
the Position of the government in Ontario seems would let to the city of Ottawa his along of city officially bilingual .
he is possible that this procedure result of two reasons : the refusal of the government provincial of be perceived as good - French and , second , the desire of not not open the relates to the bilingualism official of the Ontario , such that described in the Constitution of the country to the section 133 .
in conclusion , honourable senators , I underscored for say that the city of Ottawa is unique .
it is the capital national of a country officially bilingual .
if it must stay the capital national , I say well if , and continue of fact of the benefits stretched to this status , it should be officially bilingual .
in more of the role of capital national , the city of Ottawa is stretch to the border of the Quebec and of the Ontario .
it has a history and a culture francophones rich and that a minority French appréciable .
, a time of tension growing regarding the Confederation and the Stinson of the Quebec , the question of the nature bilingual of the capital national is a importance strike .
addition that he there has a minority French appréciable in the region of Ottawa , the courts recognize of more in more the protection of the minorities as a principle under - concert of the Constitution and a value constitutional .
the Globe and Mail not has not was also generous to the question of the Health Monfort .
the future is to those who are .
this is the " of the newspaper - fervent , our daily French in Ontario .
this is this that we will .
the hon. Serge Joyal :
addition that it abolit of a with of pen the result of several years of fight and that and , it fragilise to new the community minority franco - Ontario , it dimensions of furthering the conception fundamental , the ideal that we we are fact of this country where , in his capital national , his two major communities linguistic fondatrices can live in the harmony , the expand and the enrich to the touch the a of the other .
the governments precedents of the honourable John Robarts , Bill Davis , David Peterson and can Rae not have not was also unfeeling .
the government Harris not the in is not record that , but he attack the idea Canadian in his manipulation same .
he there has in this with a dénégation of our aspirations , a ignorance troubling of the efforts of those and those who we have predecessors , and a so of overcoming on the prejudice and the indifference who , necessary - we , had M in the leaders who we gouvernent .
Ottawa not is not a city as the other .
this is the key sat of the capital of the Canada .
the government and the Parliament of the Canada opèrent in the two languages official of the country .
the Constitution Canadian there pourvoit and the Court Supreme of the Canada the has eloquently demonstrated in the v. of the 20 August 1998 on the Stinson of the Quebec .
this v. is basic for understand the principles who we cover and who are to the basic of our life democratic .
these principles , memories - the , are to the number of four : the federalism , the democracy , the constitutionnalisme and the rule of right , and finally , and not the less , the protection of the rights of the minorities .
this is on this last principle , " the protection of the rights of the minorities " , that I like draw your attention .
honourable senators , I am of notice that the decision of the government summer of abolish the laws pensioners of the city of Ottawa and of Vanier , who their knew the status of city " bilingual " for the replace by a other bill where this protection is disparue , is , to my notice , anticonstitutionnelle and contrary to the principle basic of protection of the rights of the minorities linguistic recognized by the Court Supreme of the Canada in the v. of the 20 August 1998 .
how can - we remain passive before the man9uvre who is to abolish the status bilingual of two cities , Ottawa and Vanier , for the - in a great all fusionné , ignorant systematically the impact that a such initiative will on the rights of the community minority of language official ?
understand well the precedent ; he enough of proceed by the mechanism of the major deal for to ignored of 132 years of fight .
be the has seen recently in the example of the Health fought .
he has enough of would the fusionner with three other hospitals of the region of Ottawa - Carleton for the to people of a with of pen .
the Court Superior of the Ontario has recently , the 29 November last , in a judgment unanimous of three judges , cassé this decision to the ground that it was unconstitutional , because that contrary to the protection of the rights of the minority franco - Ontario .
let - I of remind the elements essential of the judgment of the Court of the Ontario in this case .
the court has of first recognized that the Health Monfort jouait a role who Togo widely the region of Ottawa - Carleton for the expand to the province full .
it has of more has that the community franco - Ontario was struggle constantly against the forces of assimilation for power survive .
the court has added , and I quote :
this which is to the page 6 of the judgment .
for survive , these communities linguistic must power the support on a system of institutions who supportent their development and limit the forces of assimilation .
I quote :
the uniqueness French of their institutions is therefore became of more in more important for as the role who is to preserve and to protect this culture .
this a is was of the page 7 of the judgment .
and , these institutions must there in a range of jurisdictional of activities Social also broader that possible for to to the community minority of the expand and of maintain his vitality .
the institutions are also of the symbols important for the community franco - Ontario .
they reflect the identity of group , the presence French in Ontario and to the Canada , the reality French in the life public and the force and the vitality of the community .
this which the is to the page 7 of the judgment .
the court has recognized the importance of the language French for support the life of the community .
the language French is the part cultural basic of the community franco - Ontario .
be is that to the page 8 of the judgment .
honourable senators , all these makes not the apply - they not when he the is of the new city of Ottawa , where the francophones are more of 125 . citizens and are more of 15 per of the public global ?
the city of Ottawa not is - it not , for the more great on , the sat territorial of the Board of the capital national , it - even body bilingual ?
how the francophones of the country , who séjournent in the capital for there represent their region , réagissent - they opposite to the indifference of the government summer to the regard of the symbol even of the life national ?
of the mayors of Ottawa the had déja including .
why cancel of the years of harmony linguistic for forward to new the francophones to return on the barricade of the claims ?
why significant to new the discouraging political when the peace linguistic had succeeded to the establish in the respect linked ?
not , the decision of the government summer is contrary to the spirit of our Constitution .
it impropriety the commitment of respect of the equality between the two communities , who is the touchstone even of the NATO Canadian .
the Court Superior of the Ontario the has well reminded : the principle of protection of the rights of the minorities , and I quote :
... not are not that " describe " of the rights .
they infusent the life in our Constitution .
well that this be of the principles under - revealed and not writing of the Constitution , they could however to unborn of the rights legal internal who limiteraient California the action of the government ; in addition , these principles are " also questions of a force normative puissante and are to the time the courts and the governments " .
, this regard , the court citait the Renvoi relatif to the Stinson of the Quebec ... 1998 , 2 R . C . S . 217 ... , pages 248 and 249 of the notice of the court .
the Canada , has said the Court Supreme , is a democracy constitutional .
said simply , the principle of the constitutionnalisme respectful that any action of the government respect the Constitution .
be is that to the page 8 of the judgment .
the initiative legislative of the government summer , who abolit the status of city bilingual for the new city of Ottawa ...
... must be measured to the aune of the " protection of the minorities " , the a of the principles structurants basic of the Constitution .
if the conduct is wrong and impropriety this principle , the court of review must speak ...
that the is to the page 20 of the judgment .
honourable senators , he we must from the findings who the do .
seen that the principle of the protection of the minorities - and particularly of the minorities francophones - is a principle independent and under - concert of the Constitution , a principle with of a force normative puissante who locks the government , the court must speak to the need for protect lesdites minorities against any intervention of the government who will to the with of this principle .
this which the is to the page 23 of the judgment .
the citizens francophones of the city of Ottawa and of Vanier , and , to a other degree , those of the cities of Cumberland and of Gloucester will their right of receive of the new city of the services in French .
he in does of even for the other Canadians who séjournent to Ottawa for there represent their commettants , their region or their District Senate , as this is the case for I - even .
he we must therefore mean to the government summer that the he refuses of reconsidered the legislation who abolit for the new city of Ottawa the status of city bilingual , a any will business before the courts beneficial competent for to to nulles and not cooperating the provisions of the bill of bill who aboliraient the recognition of the French in the statuts of the new city .
honourable senators , he there has a inequity his to withdraw a right by on of a initiative of merger who is to noyer in a great all a community who disposait before of right sufficient .
he would really too simple of proceed and for bending the principles who are to the basic of our order constitutional .
this is that the ideal even who is to the basic of the identity and of the over of our country .
this ideal not is not reached , and he must always there work , he not there has not of repos for those who the used .
we not can to that of the politicians provincial , to short view , internationalist of vision national , attack and our ideal without that we réagissions with the means that the bill fundamental of our country we guarantees .
not let not this with become the symbol of the defeat of our community , their of tailler his place in the capital of our country .
honourable senators , this is my firm intention of me Services to this that a action in disability be business against the bill Ontario who refuserait of recognize the rights learning of the minority French of Ottawa and of all the citizens of this country who believe profoundly in the equality of status of the two languages official .
Prouvons that a time that a government has recognized a benefit of status to our community , he not can more act of manner time , and create to new the inequality .
he there has 23 years , I entamais of the from against the Minister of the Transport of the time of my own government , for to to none a regulation prevented the use of the French in the cabines of pilotage ; he there has 23 years , I entamais also a any against Air Canada , society of the Crown , for the have to the stop of tools for to of the French a language of work in aviation .
the two actions have was welcomed Right by the courts Canadian .
he there has 17 years , to as of Secretary of state of the Canada , I contribuais to to on at the program of challenge judicial for help the communities minority of languages official to to respect their rights .
still today today , he will to call to this program for support our determination to in ensure the survival and the rayonnement .
the government summer has decided of to the judgment of the Health Monfort in call .
he has believed timely of in one the legitimacy .
let the fight , if necessary , until in Court Supreme of the Canada , that where our rights must receive their last recognition .
I urge therefore the senators Marie - P .
Poulin , Jean - Robert Gauthier and that the citizens of Ottawa and of all the Canada to approach to the courts for protect their rights and those of all those who believe in a country where the equality of the French and of the English is a ideal of civilization and of freedom unique for the dignity human .
the hon. Jerahmiel S . Grafstein :
honourable senators , I would few questions to for to the Senator Joyal .
the Hon. the Speaker :
since the time " to the Senator Joyal is has , let - you to the hon. Senator of continue to for of the questions ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the hon. John Lynch - Lynch ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , he starts to be later and some of between we have of the obligations .
the Senator Grafstein :
honourable senators , I not the observation of the Leader of the Opposition to the spirit and I be short .
the question is important .
we have heard three senators francophones speak of this about .
I have a observation and a question to to to the hon. Senator .
personally , I is incompréhensible that the policy bipartite of the government of the Ontario not has not was of go of the before of way energetic .
the first ministers Robarts and Davis , of the Party Conservative , the Prime Minister Peterson , of the Party Liberal , and that the Prime Minister Rae , of the NDP , would certainly irrités - and I hope that we the opens give their notice - before this diversion and these gamineries of the government of the Ontario .
I say that to as of Senator of the region of Toronto .
if the hon. Senator will of the before with the use before the courts , I be happy of to furthering common with him to as of Senator representative Toronto .
he is important that of the senators not francophones do of of their dissatisfaction before the political adopted in the region that they are .
the first would to expand the zone geographical of the Board of the capital national , this who , I poured , could the to by a bill of bill of initiative Parliamentary presented to the Senate .
by therefore , he is clear that all the territory of the capital national is bilingual .
second , has he arisen the use to the power of awesome of the bill provincial which has the government federal ?
the Senator Joyal :
honourable senators , the question that the Senator Grafstein raises is a question who , in right , is complex .
the Board of the capital national not has not the jurisdiction him can of provide of the services municipal in of the areas as those of the fire , of police , of the facilities of leisure , and cetera .
that the Board of the capital national , the provisions of presents urban understand of other responsibilities , particularly in report with the presence of the government federal .
I about here of the services of Administration and other who , until to a sure point , recoupent those of the Administration municipale .
even if we find expand the limits of the Board of the capital national for that they regroupent the together of the territory served by the new city , the limits of the new city of Ottawa would regulated by the bill as this is the case of the city current .
in this who with the power of repeal , the honourable senators understand that this is a question very complex .
the Court Supreme of the Canada has said that a power not can be proved as and also long that he is in the Constitution .
however , this is that a question on which should the with the government of the Canada if a recommendation was made to the gouverneure General of the Canada in this context and in they that that this power not has not was used since very long .
the he had was used , this would in of the circumstances exceptional .
this could be that a raccourci for all to the solution that we wish , but he there of other means who could be all also effective .
he would useful for all the Canadians of all the provinces that a decision be taken in this matter .
I see the Senator Lynch - Lynch of the other side of the House .
he knows that North Hatley and Ayer' s Cliff are in are of fusionner in the even context .
however , if these cities fusionnent , North Hatley perdra the status of city bilingual that him recognizes the ( 13 f ) of the Act on the language French to the Quebec .
they want fusionner the services .
someone 40 per of the public of the new city would of language English , this who the translate by the loss of their status bilingual .
this question is a such importance that he is impossible of him to a solution by the through of a power of repeal .
he is very important in this country that the rights individual of the minority , that it be of language English or of language French , be guaranteed .
in of other words , a time that these rights have was recognized , they not can be indirectly reduced by of the objectives administrative who are shaped on the plan financial but who equivalent to a destruction total of these same rights for the minority .
( on the motion of the Senator Fraser , the debate is adjourned . )
the Senate
motion of - of the procedure of Assent Royal - Maintien of the motion
, the call of the motion No. 43 :
that the Senate of the Canada states the procedure of Assent Royal to the Senate , such that it is which by the authorities in procedure Parliamentary Norman Wilding and Philip Laundy : " Position ceremony pratiquée to the Canada is the who seems the apparenter the more to the distinct " .
that the Senate ' the right sovereign of Majesty Majesty , such that he is statement in the Act constitutional of 1867 , and who him authority the prerogative of deal the procedures parliamentarians and the bills of bill studied , ' to the Senators or adopted in the two Houses of the Parliament ;
that the Senate , in as that House where Majesty Majesty authority the Assent Royal , states the right constitutional ancestral as House of the Parliament where convergent the business of the three branches of the Parliament seize together in as that Parliament of the Canada ;
that the Senate states the right of the Parliament , the " lex parliamenti " , the bill ancestrale who has that the consent Alaska is required for the study by the Parliament of all bill of bill or any procedure Parliamentary who would the prerogative of Majesty Majesty ;
that the Senate states that the procedure Parliamentary to follow by a member for obtain the consent Alaska is of table to this effect a motion to is to Majesty Majesty , who the topic of the other forms of request of consent Alaska which have access the Prime Minister or the ministers in the year of their responsibilities business ;
that the Senate states the obligation of obtain the consent of Majesty Majesty before that be examined a bill of bill who affectera the prerogative Royal , to the example of the consent Alaska who has was of by the Queen Elizabeth II to the Royal Assent Bill of 1967 , who has was record to the House of the Lords of the Kingdom - U by the Grand Chancellor Gardiner to the step of the second Reading of the bill of bill , the 2 March 1967 :
" your Seigneuries , I am responsible by Majesty Majesty the Queen of inform the House that Majesty Majesty , to was it of the subject of the bill of bill , agreed to to his prerogative and the interest , in the legislation where they are will by the bill of bill , to the clause of the Parliament to the for of the bill of bill . "
and who has was by few weeks more later , the 17 April 1967 , to the House of the Commons of the Kingdom - U by the prosecutor General Sir Elwyn Jones :
" I am responsible by the Queen of inform the House that Majesty Majesty , to was it of the subject of the bill of bill , agreed to to his prerogative and the interest , in the legislation where they are will by the bill of bill , to the clause of the Parliament to the for of the bill of bill .
I have the honour of propose that the bill of bill be now read a second time . "
the hon. John Lynch - Lynch ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I point the Rules .
even if the sponsor of this motion , the Senator Cools , not is not this , if I not raises not this question now , I could be accused of not not the have raised as that I have could the to .
I move therefore that the rule of the anticipation be namely in the case this .
indeed , if this motion is placed to the Paper , the even question there figurera a second time .
the first between in conflict with the second .
as the for the comment 512 ( 1 ) of the sixth edition of the Beauchesne :
( 1 ) - shut of studying , in of other words the shut of to more earlier that provided a case placed to the Paper , result of the even principle that the rule who banned of raise two time the even question to the over of a session .
I draw also your attention on the comment 512 ( 2 ) .
I point the Rules because that I believe that the Bill bill S - 7 is a form of procedure more effective that the motion of the Senator Cools .
by therefore , the bill of bill S - 7 should have is , and the motion of the Senator not should not included to the Paper .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , the Senator Cools not is not here currently .
I ask therefore to the honourable senators of have the indulgence of to the least him give the opportunity of the deal on the use to the Rules of the Senator Lynch - Lynch .
I move therefore of an the discussion on the use to the Rules tomorrow , in presence of the hon. Senator .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , we not are before of no motion now .
a notice of motion has was of by the hon. Senator Cools .
by therefore , he not there has nothing on what I can to a decision .
I understand however the point of view that has fact point the hon. Senator Lynch - Lynch .
I have examined the situation , but I not can nothing to as that we not will not before of the motion .
the time come , I be happy of reflect to the question regarding the Rules .
( the debate is order . )
( the Senate the adjourned to the Wednesday the 15 December 99 , to 13 p.m. 30 . )
debates of the Senate ( Hansard )
wondering Session , Session st ,
volume 6,401 , Issue 22
the Wednesday 15 December 99
the hon. Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker
table of the Contents
' ' '
the légendes of the hockey
the Team Canada 99
the appointment of the Lieutenant - Governor Statutes Hole
visitors of in
Affairs routine
the ascertain tabled pursuant to the Act on the transport to the Canada Motion some carriers air Smokers to negotiate - Presented of the third report of the Committee of the transport and of the Communications
Energy , environment and resources natural
Presented of the second report of the Committee
the adjournment
the Group Parliamentary Canada - Japan
Tabled of the report of the delegation Canadian to the tenth meeting bilateral Annual with the Group of friendship Canada - Japan
the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe
Tabled of the report of the delegation Canadian to the meeting of the Assembly Parliamentary of the Organization for the security and the cooperation in Europe , held of the 17 to the 19 November 99
the Association legislative Canada - China
Tabled of the report of the delegation Canadian to the second meeting Annual , held of the 25 to the 31 October
the Senate
the granting of a status bilingual to the city of Ottawa - Notice of motion
PERIOD PERIOD question
the Finance
the transport
the Defence national
the Alternative of the helicopters Sea King
the health
the increase of the Estimates in research on the cancer of the within
the Council of the Board
the s of the Prime Minister
the Lieutenant - Governor of the Nova - Nova - Nomination of the , - Possibility of a choice not partisan
order DAY THE
the business of the Senate
bill of bill of credit No. 3 for 99 - 2000
second Reading
bill of bill of 99 for the implementation in implement of conventions tax
third Reading - Continued of the debate
the SENATE
the Wednesday 15 December 99
the Senate is met to 13 p.m. 30 , the Speaker the to the Chair .
prayers .
the légendes of the hockey
the Team Canada 99
the hon. Francis William Mahovlich :
honourable senators , I like today today give my version of the Team Canada 99 . It there has now 27 years that the " Série of the century " has had place , in 1972 , when the world has up of people a moment for attend to the great victory of the Canada .
, this time , as today today , he there had of the under - heard political .
our trip had was organized primarily Mr. Alexander Tikanov , who is to the to elected as Governor of the region .
Mr. . Tikanov not is not that a phenomenon policy , he Canada more of medals Olympics and sportives that not any which of between we .
my trip had for purpose of me to of see by I - even the changes who the are opérés to Moscow and in Russia since 1972 , and of play a series advances after a victory in 1972 and a defeat in 1974 .
our team was ; of the protocol to reached the Fame of the Fame Guy Lafleur , and the son , Gilbert celebrating , and the son , Marcel Dionne , Steve Shutt and Brad Park .
the keepers of aims Richard Sévigny and Gaston Gingras complétaient the picture , without forget my son , as Mahovlich .
in summary , say that Guy Lafleur has was remarkable during of the Prime match , obtenant the turn of the chapeau .
the duo father - son of Frank and as Mahovlich has dismantling a purpose few minutes before the end of the second part , and Frank has was 264 flagship of the match !
of the Senators :
hear !
the Senator Mahovlich :
the coveted will statement in my office .
I not have not had the less opportunity .
the entraîneurs were Yvan Cournoyer and Bobby Hull , all two to the Fame of the Fame .
during of the fourth part , we not take nothing let to the accident and all the were by to play the match of their life .
the result , 5 to 2 for we , we the must to the son , be é - é celebrating , Martin Lafleur and Edward Mahovlich , who have dismantling two aims .
the Russes were also represented by of great protocol of this series of hockey of 1972 :
this team has it fact Appendix ?
without no doubt , say - I , particularly if by " Appendix " you want speak of the way of to the volume and the perspective with some tons can these effects of light who by the contours .
some senators say that I about more of a picture of Monet or of Cézanne .
this not is not true .
this team rest in the memory of the Russes a model of behaviour , of spirit of team , of determination and of spirit sportsman .
I was proud of to part of all that .
the Russes not knew that to for we to happy .
if Marie wanted visit the Grand into Bolchoï , the development Pouchkine or the Argonauts of métro , we had Olag and Stash , the guard of the body , to our clause .
the trip incluait a match to St. - Pétersbourg and a visit to the development of the Hermitage , the palais of Winter of the tsars .
we have travelled any the night by are and , to our arrived , we have visited the new patinoire of hockey who accueillera the championnats of the world junior in April 2000 .
the Canada will well represented .
the responsible we has fact visit the patinoire and we has explained that the n was completed to 80 per , that it would prepared for the year 2000 , that it had a ability of 12 . places weakened and that it top 75 million of $ .
when I him have asked of where had the money , he me has answered of the bank and of large investors .
this who we has particularly coalesces all to the long of the trip , this are the changes who the are products .
we have visited the Khruschev , where Eltsine had of meet Leonid Kuchma , chairman of the Ukraine .
the Hon. the Speaker :
I am sorry , Senator Mahovlich , but your time of speak is has .
the Senator Lynch - Lynch :
a extension , the he you pleasure !
of the Senators :
will - there !
the Hon. the Speaker :
souhaitez - you ask the leave of continue ?
the Senator Mahovlich :
yes , Honour Hon. .
the Hon. the Speaker :
is - this of agreed , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Hon. the Speaker :
going , I you in please .
the Senator Mahovlich :
the Khruschev has was has to nine to the cost of 350 million of $ American and this is a Block which the Russia can be proud .
I have was to Washington , in France , to Beijing and in Australia .
nothing not the with to the work who has was made on the " totalled of the Khruschev of where , to a time , the tsars and the tsarines régnaient .
if a Senator has the opportunity of the to that - there , the visit of the Khruschev the is .
Mr. . Pavel Boredin , the third in the entirely , has had the kindly of we explain in detail all this that the wards constituency and their duties under the regime Communist and under the regime of the tsars .
the place was if great that be had the sense that be could shields our buildings of the Parliament in a Room , and he there had three wards of this size .
this is really intimidant when the chairman Eltsine has a meeting in a of these wards and that be not it that a office and two chaises and that be much all the other day .
the pillars are facts of malachite and of lapis - lazuli and the walls are ornés of paintings representative of the heroes historic russes .
he there has a something in Russia who remains Increase , this is the used of to a toast and of to of the speech .
we have should as of water our verres of legislation to addiction after two or three vodkas for power follow our hosts .
the time very of the trip has was a visit to the cimetières with the épouses and the son of the entraîneurs and of the protocol of hockey .
the Russes the will regularly to the cemetery for honour the other protocol , by example Alexander Kharlamov , who is death in 1981 .
the pierres tombales are of the his deart.
by example , he there had a buste of Tarasov over - with of a Room of granit who was divided in two by of the bâtons of hockey in - to the a community of the - .
I was if impressed and I have took as of pictures that I have did of films .
many of Russes we have spoke of their entraîneurs and of their protocol .
in as that Captain of the team , I have spoke of Tarasov and of our meeting to the beginning of the years 60 , and that of my experiences in as that witness of the a of the pictured aims of Kharlamov .
the trip the is debated by a this to the City Savoy with of the divertissements and of the danses russes .
the two teams were revitalizing , contrary to 1972 , where the Russes not the are not made after their defeat .
the ambassador of the Canada , Rod Irwin , and the wife were also attendance .
the fumée of cigare has last by we him and we are therefore parties in even time that Julie .
we find to our bagages for our flight of return the next morning .
the Hon. the Speaker :
of the Senators :
the appointment of the Lieutenant - Governor Statutes Hole
the hon. Joyce Fairbairn :
honourable senators , I am outset that the other honourable senators of the Alberta the join to I for draw the attention of the Senate on the change spoken to the as of Lieutenant - Governor in our province of origin .
laws is a woman of Affairs , a auteure , a diffuseure , a activist in the field of the education who has served on a period of 30 years various positions to the within of the advice of the districts school of St. - Albert and of the about .
it has generously and voluntary supported of the activities to the within of his community and of the city of Edmonton , where it is very admirée for his skills and the excellent sense of the humour .
of the people from of across in America of the North are the notice of Statutes and , to the over of the five past years , it has took the speak before someone higher groups and businesses .
he there has a year and half , it has received the Order of the Canada and has was made Chancellor of the University of the Alberta .
already , it the is from to the perspective of the a of his new responsibilities the of that it for to the focus on the importance of the education and of the learning for the citizens of all the unwelcome .
I him wish many of success and I the will in any the legislation of my means .
honourable senators , Statutes raced to a wonderful gentleman , Olson Olson , a farmer of s Hat who , for more of four decades , has spent his life to the public .
he has was member to the House of the Commons for 15 years and Senator of 1977 until to the from to the as of Lieutenant - Governor in 1996 .
all to the long of his career , Olson has was recognized as a of the débatteurs and experts of the procedure the more qualified of the time .
he me has certainly many learned for all the years where we have was friends on the Hill of the Parliament .
the Increase in the career of Olson Olson , this is that he has always expressed with passion and her the concerns of his province and , in particular , of the community agricultural .
but over - beyond of all that , he must the remind the great patriotism our to the regard of the country and of the because of the unity , sense who the has drove also in the more recent as that he has served .
I know that all the honourable senators the joindront to I for wish the welcome to Statutes and congratulate Olson Olson .
that God your bénisse , Olson .
of the Senators :
hear !
the hon. Nicholas W . Taylor :
honourable senators , he would virtually impossible of to better after the Senator Fairbairn , but I will all of even add few words .
I wish to Olson Olson a retirement in good health .
my links with Olson evolved to of many years .
Olson the is always he for the policy .
he has always was a excellent orator very very in logical .
I me recall of the campaign that he has seeing in favour of the Party of the Crédit social of the Canada , arpentant the south of the Alberta in motocyclette .
not very long after , he accédait to the as of Minister to the within of the cabinet Liberal and the baladait in limousine .
this is for you say that the people of the south of the Alberta will always very soon in case .
I see that the Senator Ghitter is of agreed with I .
I know Statutes Hole since more long that it not would the in remember .
, the time , as the most of the Liberal , I have should leave Calgary for me to elected .
today today , when we employons the expression " without - from " , this is for designate a Liberal to Calgary .
after have served together for of many years in the sector of the education , I thought have reached a purpose .
a of my friends Rouyn of the protocol of football in the graduates of the school in Alberta for the to play in coalescing .
I the have him in the Hole , which the two son were of solid gaillards .
the family full is sports , but Statutes me has supported in of the words without was that , well that his son have was in legislation of take their own decisions , in as that parents , it and the husband souhaitaient that these young people play to the football to the Canada and not , .
I the attention for to that Statutes was guarantee the matriarche of the clan .
as and the boys have many contributed to the business é .
laws the interest of first and before all to the education but it the is also fact know as auteure .
we will many to have the opportunity of the meet in the years to come , because it is to the time young and dynamic and it not will not of sillonner the country without v. .
it will a wonderful Lieutenant - Governor .
the appointment of Lynda Haverstock to the as of Lieutenant - Governor
the hon. Sharon Carstairs :
honourable senators , I not know not the new Lieutenant - Governor of the Alberta , but I wish to him wish the better of the opportunity .
however , I know Lynda Haverstock , who just of be appointed in Saskatchewan .
Lynda Haverstock will certainly amend the vitae curriculum type of the Lieutenant - Governor .
before the age of ninety years , it was already mother propagandist and had forsaken the school , but it is now become Dr. in psychologie .
it has past good number of years to work with the families agricultural in crisis , appearing of the advice to all they of levels .
this is to my notice a aspect important of this that it grist to his new duties of Lieutenant - Governor of the province of the Saskatchewan .
Lynda the is supervising actively of policy for good number of years .
it was Leader of the Party Liberal of the Saskatchewan to little close to the even time where I occupais this as to the Manitoba .
as the Liberal not were not very fortunate in these two provinces to this time - that , he we is often came of compatir together .
I believe that the Prime Minister has fact a good choice .
when these two women will was shelters , he there will as of women that of men who occuperont the as of Lieutenant - Governor to the country .
of the Senators :
hear !
the Senator Carstairs :
he has also fact a good choice since Ms Haverstock has many fought , as good number of people in Saskatchewan , and it knows well the problems are the people of the Saskatchewan are opposite to the hour current .
the hon. David Tkachuk :
honourable senators , this is the a of the few time where I have someone something of kind to say to about of the Liberal .
as you the know , the Prime Minister has appointed Ms Lynda Haverstock to the as of Lieutenant - Governor of the Saskatchewan . her just there replace a other great Liberal , Jack Wiebe .
Lynda the is battue in as that Leader of the Party Liberal of the Saskatchewan , but I have many of time for Lynda Haverstock .
it is for I a friend .
the husband and I fundamentally to the golf also often that we the can .
this is a woman of principles .
it will his duties with a great dignity .
the case we is that the appointments political working .
the week last , I have taquiné Lynda to the airport to about of his appointment .
I have travelled with the husband of Toronto to Saskatoon and he me has said that his appointment had was announced .
I had thought that it would become présentatrice of a by - debate telephone .
as you the know , it has had of the problems with the new Leader of the Party Liberal , Jim Melenchuk - of the problems enough serious .
I have said to the husband that it could the venger because that he is now member of the caucus of the NDP and that , when it host a of his bills of bill who ask his signing , it could the look to the poubelle .
Lynda would that .
after the words kind of the Senator Carstairs to the place of Ms Haverstock , I like me join to the Senator for congratulate this last .
I know that it représentera well the province .
his appointment is the a of the few that has made the Prime Minister and that I does fully .
visitors of in
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I like wish the welcome to two of our former colleagues who the find in the gallery this after - afternoon , to know the hon. Lorne Bonnell and the hon. Eugene Whelan .
of the Senators :
hear !
Affairs routine
the ascertain tabled pursuant to the Act on the transport to the Canada Motion some carriers air Smokers to negotiate - Presented of the third report of the Committee of the transport and of the Communications
the hon. Lise Bacon , chairman of the Committee Senate Standing of the transport and of the Communications , its the report following :
the Wednesday 15 December 99
the Committee Senate Standing of the transport and of the Communications has the honour of to the
third REPORT
your Committee , who has was authorized by the Senate le14 October 99 to to , for in to report , pursuant to the paragraph 47 ( 5 ) of the Act on the transport to the Canada , the ascertain tabled before this House the 14 September 99 , Motion some carriers air Smokers and some people to negotiate and to conclude any agreement Earl , ask respectfully that the Committee be authorized to clerical the services of lawyers , of counsel technical and of all other staff felt necessary .
the budget was presented to the Committee Standing of the Economy Economy , of the Budgets and of the Administration the jeudi9 December 99 . cases the second report the Committee of the Economy Economy has fact the recommendation that 19 900 $ be libérés for this study .
this report was adopted by the Senate the Tuesday 14 December 99 .
respectfully submitted ,
the chairman ,
would BACON
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when consideration - we this report ?
( on the motion of the Senator Bacon , the study of the report is placed to the order of the day of the next Senate . )
Energy , environment and resources natural
Presented of the second report of the Committee
the hon. Mira Spivak , chairman of the Committee Senate Standing of the energy , of the environment and of the resources natural , its the report following :
the Wednesday 15 December 99
the Committee Senate Standing of the energy , of the environment and of the resources natural has the honour of to the
second REPORT
your Committee , authorized by the Senate the mercredi1er December 99 to study the questions who could time occasionally the Procedural to the energy , to the environment and to the resources natural , ask respectfully that the Committee be authorized to clerical the services of lawyers , of counsel technical and of all other staff felt necessary , and to the adjourn to across the Canada and to the abroad to the for of the inquiry .
the budget was presented to the Committee Standing of the Economy Economy , of the Budgets and of the Administration the jeudi9 December 99 . cases the second report , the Committee of the Economy Economy has noted that he are to a study of the situation budget of the committees of the Senate and fact the recommendation that 6 / 12 of the funds accorded be libérés of here the 10 February 2000 .
this report was adopted by the Senate the Tuesday 14 December 99 .
respectfully submitted ,
the chairman ,
MIRA SPIVAK
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when consideration - we this report ?
( on the motion of the Senator Spivak , the study of the report is placed to the order of the day of the next Senate . )
the recommendations of the Board Royal on the Peoples aboriginal relatively to the service government aboriginal
Presented of the report of the Committee of the Peoples aboriginal
the hon. Charlie Watt , chairman of the Committee Senate Standing of the Peoples aboriginal , its the report following :
the Wednesday 15 December 99
the Committee Senate Standing of the Peoples aboriginal has the honour of to the
second REPORT
your Committee , who has was authorized by the Senate the Wednesday 24 November 99 , to do a study and to to a report on the recommendations of the Board Royal on the Peoples aboriginal relatively to the service government aboriginal , ask respectfully that the Committee be authorized to clerical the services of lawyers , of counsel technical and of all other staff felt necessary to the for of the inquiry .
the budget was presented to the Committee Standing of the Economy Economy , of the Budgets and of the Administration the jeudi9 December 99 . cases the second report , the Committee of the Economy Economy has fact the recommendation that 14 750 $ be libérés for the study .
this report was adopted by the Senate the Tuesday 14 December 99 .
respectfully submitted ,
the chairman ,
chairman chairman
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when consideration - we this report ?
( on the motion of the Senator Watt , the study of the report is placed to the order of the day of the next Senate . )
the adjournment
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate , and notwithstanding the section 58 ( 1 ) i ) of the Rules , I move :
that to 15 p.m. 30 today today , if the Senate not has not teminé his business , the Speaker interrompe the deliberations for adjourn the Senate ;
that , if a vote is deferred to 17 p.m. 30 today today , the Speaker interrompe the deliberations to 15 p.m. 30 for suspend the Senate until to 17 p.m. 30 for the implementation to the Senators of the vote deferred ; and
that all the points formula to the Order of the day and to the Paper of the Notice , who not have not was broader , have in their order present .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the leave is - it granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
the Group Parliamentary Canada - Japan
Tabled of the report of the delegation Canadian to the tenth meeting bilateral Annual with the Group of friendship Canada - Japan
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I have the honour of table the report of the delegation Canadian to the tenth meeting bilateral Annual between the Group Parliamentary Canada - Japan and the Group of friendship Canada - Japan , who the is held to Tokyo and to Nagasaki and that in the Island of Shikoku , to the Japan , of the 6 to the 13 November 99 .
the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe
Tabled of the report of the delegation Canadian to the meeting of the Assembly Parliamentary of the Organization for the security and the cooperation in Europe , held of the 17 to the 19 November 99
the hon. Jerahmiel S . Grafstein :
honourable senators , I have the honour of table , in the two languages official , the report of the delegation Canadian of the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe ( OSCE ) to the meeting of the office expanded of the Assembly Parliamentary of the Organization for the security and the cooperation in Europe and to the Summit of the OSCE who the are held to Istanbul , in Ammunition , of the 17 to the 19 November 99 .
the Association legislative Canada - China
Tabled of the report of the delegation Canadian to the second meeting Annual , held of the 25 to the 31 October
the hon. Jack Austin :
honourable senators , I have the honour of table , in the two languages official , the third report of the Association legislative Canada - China regarding the second meeting bilateral who the is held to Ottawa , Toronto , Winnipeg and Victoria , to the Canada , of the 25 extending October 99 .
the Senate
the granting of a status bilingual to the city of Ottawa - Notice of motion
the hon. Jean - Robert Gauthier :
honourable senators , I give notice that tomorrow , the 16 December , I move that the city of Ottawa , capital of the Canada , should be officially bilingual .
the hon. Lowell Murray :
he we in has revealed the substance .
that not me believe however not sufficient .
we have need that he tabled his motion .
the Senator Gauthier :
honourable senators , I am prepared to table the motion in question .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I am of notice that he there has only a problem of communication .
as be the knows , the hon. Senator not will not very well , of so that he could there have a problem .
the hon. John Lynch - Lynch ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
why not our - we not of to to the notice of motion ?
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
I accept that we return to the notice of motion more later today today , when the Senator Gauthier can table the notice of motion that the rules .
the Hon. the Speaker :
is - this of agreed , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the hon. Anne C . Cools :
honourable senators , to the time where the Senator Hays asked the leave of to more later for that the Senator Gauthier its the notice of motion , this last was already prepared to the to .
the Senator Hays :
of agreed .
the Senator Gauthier :
honourable senators , the he there has confusion , this is can - be because that , to because of my surdité , I must read on my computer portable before I this that the honourable senators come of say .
however , I have well a motion and I will the back to the page for that he the relates to the Board .
the Hon. the Speaker :
he not will not necessary of to more later to the notice of motion , of agreed ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
PERIOD PERIOD question
the Finance
the limits of the mandate of the members of the Board of Investment of the Plan of Pension of the Canada
the hon. David Tkachuk :
honourable senators , my question the is to the Leader of the government and relates on the Plan of Pension of the Canada and the recommendations of the Committee Senate Standing of the Banking and of the trade .
, the beginning of 1988 , the Committee of the Banking has by a study - of the Board of Investment of the Plan of Pension of the Canada .
I have was happy of see that the government federal and the provinces approuvaient to the least a of our recommendations , who was to limit the number of mandates that could as a be .
in his response of September 1998 to the report of our Committee , the Minister has said that the tax of a limit discussed of the changes legislation .
if the honourable senators the recall the debate given to the time , he was incredibly pressing that the bill of bill on the Board of Investment of the Plan of Pension of the Canada be adopted .
the Minister said that the changes not could not be made because that he would amend the bill .
now that the Minister of the Finance has answered to this part of the bill of bill and that he has said that the government fixerait a office limited for the mandate of the directors , we not let no referring to the bill of bill in the announcement of the week last .
the officials that we have contactés not were to the aware of no plan to to to a bill of bill enclosing the measures announcements the week last .
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I not have knowledge of no bill of bill to was presented by the Minister of the Finance until to now .
he the can that he choisisse of the to more later , but I not have knowledge of other bill of bill in this time .
as to the substance of the reaching carried in 1998 , I the know .
I then however attempt of bring the question to the Minister and to with a response in time wanted .
the Senator Tkachuk :
the Leader can - he the Services to provide a response written expliquant why he not there has not of bill of bill and why the Minister of the Finance has said , in September 1998 , that he in would a ?
this is important because that we have believed the Minister , and this is why number of members of the Committee have designed the idea of annexer a letter to the bill of bill rather of adopt the amendment directly to the Committee .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I will try of confirm to the Senator if the government has the intention of to a bill of bill .
the transport
the restructuring of the industry of the transport air - - effect of the monopoly of Air Canada
the hon. Donald H . Oliver :
honourable senators , I have a question to for to the Leader of the government to the Senate to the about of the transportation .
the senators know that the Committee Senate of the transport has fact a excellent analysis of the decision of the Minister of the Transport of suspend the application of the section 47 of the Act on the competition , this who has for to the society Onex of propose a important restructuring of the sector of the transport air .
the Committee has found that no reason not sort that the Minister suspende the application of this clause .
I me ask , for begin , if the Leader of the government has a explanation .
this are all of the questions important .
the week last , I have asked of the questions to the Minister to the about of the increase of the rates of Air Canada , and be we said now that Air Canada trafique the points of the program for great travellers .
the Leader can - he we give the insurance that the Canadians not will not broyés by the monopoly of Air Canada ?
who canada the rights of the consumers in this restructuring ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , in this who with the protection of the so Canadian , if a only transporteur dominait the market , we appliquerions the principles that the Minister has out and that I have repeated here to few occasions .
in the circumstances current , the transporteur cluster will the with to of the rules clear .
the Senator Oliver :
if the Parliament the adjourned until in February , who will the with of the matter if the rates continue to increase and if be continues to amend the system of points ?
who will protect the consumers to this regard ?
the Senator Boudreau :
the agencies regulatory in place will continue to the a of their mandate .
of more , the commitment of the Minister of the Transport has was release to Air Canada in the words the more it .
I have fully confidence that the consumers will protected .
the hon. Consiglio Di Nino :
I me ask if the Minister could we say the he there has of the new to the about of the statement of the Minister that which the carriers foreign would given to having to the Canada , particularly in the field of the cabotage .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I not have nothing to add to this about for the time .
I me am to this that the Minister its under little a are of measures .
I am course that they will ensure to the principles who have was out to several occasions to the behalf of the government .
these principles garantissent that the consumers are protected .
the Senator Di Nino :
the Minister could - he obtain for we a response on the question of the cabotage of here to this that the Senate reprenne his business the year next ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I will on of the concern of the Senator and I bring his ask of information .
he will to the Minister of decide the he to deal separately and in public of a part of the measures or the he to propose a together of measures as a all .
the Defence national
the Alternative of the helicopters Sea King
the hon. J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , the of the incidents indicated in the newspapers these the months and including the headline of the Presse Canadian of today today that which he there would had to the least 10 ou12 incidents where of the doors , of the print plates , of the print of rotor and of other print would tombées of the helicopters Sea King , the government think he to the staff who must travel in these helicopters ?
I me ask this that the public of Halifax - Western - where the Leader of the government to the Senate want can - be the to during of the next election federal - think when the Sea King survolent their houses .
in despite of the notes of information of the Minister of the Defence , who say that he will eight years for about the program of Alternative of the helicopters submarines , the Minister him - even states that he can make to well a such program in five years .
I accept this deadline , but some conditions do in at and I like have the comments of the Minister .
I have fact many of research on the question and I have spoke to many of people who know exactly what is the situation .
if the government is before the end of the months , be me said that he would possible of complete in 2005 .
the government ferra he this that he must before the end of the year ?
for - he take the measures necessary before the end of December of this year ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I have read this section in the newspaper and I had provided that the question would raised .
I have read carefully this section and I in have made copy with I .
the Senator has all to fact reason of say that a series of incidents are s in the past and that we in opens certainly still speak .
however , this series of incidents confirms that these helicopters are old and achèvent their life useful .
I have noted that Colin Curleigh , a Brigadier General to the retirement and a man very respected in the cercles military of Halifax , was quoted in this section .
Mr. . Curleigh has confirmed that , to the notice , he would possible of have replaced the Sea King in 2005 .
he not has not added that he would that the appropriation be dégagés before ë , of the least not in this section .
however , he has should that the Alternative could be debated in 2005 .
I have was happy of hear a expert of the questions military as the Brigadier General Curleigh confirm the information that I have obtenue of other sources and that which the reliability of the aircraft the concern , by Opposition to the security of the people .
he must say , in any justice to the Senator , that the Brigadier - General has added that the bill could be led to well in 2005 , but that he would for that a enormous will policy .
I i that he was probably to the aware of the fact that the Minister of the Defence national has fact of this question his first priority .
I have good hope that he the is that of the such of commitment necessary for to advance the program .
the Senator Forrestall :
honourable senators , he there has a other condition who will of fine with the plan of implementation in implement .
I respect enormous the Brigadier - General Curleigh that I know , as the Minister the in doubt , since 25 or 30 years .
I am in the parages since long .
I have known the Brigadier - General Curleigh when he was officer subalterne .
the question of the will policy has was should .
if we want initiate the process , we must to a oriented to of have a choice .
are - we prepared to to the sacrifice of the benefits equity regional who could be necessary for to this objective ?
this is a question extremely important .
when we about of security , we about of reliability .
a accessoire of armament is piece of a Sea King in full flight , to Shearwater .
a panneau of drives is piece of a apparatus Sea King the 29 August , and the be not the in is view that to the over of a inspection after the atterrissage .
a other Sea King has lost a panneau different to the over of a flight between Thunder Bay and Kenora .
a balise of search the is détachée by inadvertent of a modulateur , the 24 September , to the over of a flight over - with of the part core of the are .
he there will a War with the Americans , if we not do not attention .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , the point that the Senator raises regarding the iceberg example well the difficult of the process .
this is always , affiliated , a series of compromise .
must - he responsiveness the memories for have the possible of buy to the within of the Canada ?
this are that of the questions which the Minister of the Defence national must weigh during of each acquisition of equipment military .
I not have not the jurisdiction required for was the various factors to from of the data that I has , but I am sure that the Minister at of such decisions couramment for not any what Purchase .
he the would certainly in the case of a acquisition also important that the Alternative of the Sea King .
the Senator Forrestall :
honourable senators , nothing not will fact before the end of the its year , this who means that , in five years , we not will not still this equipment if seriously necessary .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I please the Senator of not not from a such conclusion .
I remains honourable .
I me am talked with the Minister of the Defence national .
he me has fact on of his priorities who , I the hope , the transformeront in action .
the health
the increase of the Estimates in research on the cancer of the within
the hon. Marjory LeBreton :
honourable senators , since we about of will policy , the week last , be has could read in The Ottawa Citizen that a proposal introduced to the government be that he increase to 235 million of $ the Estimates aside to the research and to the treatment of the cancer of the within has was defeated , even if each knows that this is the form the more day of cancer in the woman .
of even , in the book Red of 1997 , he is wrote clear that the cancer of the within fact part of the major problems in s of health .
the Leader of the government to the Senate can - he we say when the government will take to heart this serious illness and act to this about ?
the government has spent a billion of $ for with the contract of the airport Pearson and 764 million of $ for with the contracts after the cancellation of the given of the helicopters EH - EH he there has six years .
that given of these Estimates , how the government can - he justify the refusal of a amount of 235 million of $ on five years for help the women afflicted of cancer of the within ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , the government at very to the seriously the efforts been for combat this illness and inevitable the people who in suffering .
I not am not really to the aware of the ask to which the Senator has fact referring .
in fact , I am a little confus as to the nature exactly of the ask , to know the he the was of the Benefit direct of services medical areas by the government federal or the he there had a some participation of the on of the departments provincial of the Health .
unfortunately , I not have not these information before I and I am therefore their of give a response complete to the Senator .
the Senator LeBreton :
he has was many question of this case in the media .
I have seen someone something to this about in The Ottawa Citizen .
a friend to I me has said that he had read a section on this case in the Sun of Vancouver .
the government has rejected of the revers of the with a suggestion from of a of the members of the own caucus , who the is to be doctor and who includes certainly the serious of this illness .
yet , the government not the is not gêné for literally 1,764 billion of $ for cancel of the contracts .
how the government can - he justify that to the women who suffering of the cancer of the within and to their families ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I am a little disadvantaged here because that I not know not the details of the proposal .
the was - he of business of research ?
the was - he of the Benefit direct of services medical ?
the Senator LeBreton :
he the was of business of research .
the Senator Boudreau :
the he the was of the Benefit direct of services medical , in as that former Minister provincial of the Health , I not know really not how that could operate .
the he the was of business of research , I understand .
I attention also to the Senator the new program majeur of research in health who has was announced and who is supported by the government .
the proposal regarding the Instituts Canadian of research in health represents a initiative without precedent in our country in this who with the research in health .
be could think that the cancer of the within can nervousness be included in this initiative major .
the Council of the Board
the increase of the Prestation national for children - - devancement of the date
the hon. Erminie J . Cohen :
honourable senators , we apprenions in the speech of the Throne that the Prestation national for children would increase to from of 2002 .
that of the information who have fact the subject of a identifies and who have was sent to the National Financial he there has few weeks , this legislation cost about 650,000 million of $ the first year and , a time implemented in the together , 23,850 million of $ each year by the on .
the Prestation national for children is remitted to the families poor of the Canada .
it their provides the assistance financial which they have desperately need for the you of the food , of the Clothing and a housing .
even in they that of the Estimates incidental and of the factors of prudence , the government the is to like a surplus of 5,5 billion of $ the year next .
the government has he of good reasons of not not increase as the year next the Benefit remitted to the families poor of the Canada , who could then see the difference in their cheque to from of July 2000 ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I thank the hon. Senator for his question and for the support to this program .
the government enregistrera a surplus and we we in réjouissons all .
the deserves in with essentially to the Minister of the Finance .
however , the way which the surplus will redistribué will relatives in service of the various needs , who will , I poured , all very urgents and legitimate .
I not know not if the suggestion of the hon. Senator can be taken in consideration , but I ensure to the would to the people can .
the Senator Cohen :
honourable senators , the government has succeeded to like a surplus to the backs of the poor .
the only generates of the Prestation national for children with to the fact that a agreed an with the provinces their allows of settle the money and paid to the recipients social .
the government can - he delay the Families of this program and ensure rather to this that any the increase scheduled be remitted not only to the workers poor , but also to all the families to low income ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I must to on the suggestion not based that which the surplus has was realized to the backs of the poor .
this surplus the ask in part by the vigour of the economy .
our product national gross knows a growth without precedent .
that not is not a accident , but the result of political solid , sensées and modérées .
the growth economic is extremely strong .
in by evidence of discipline on the plan budget , we have succeeded to in come to the point where the parliamentarians can discuss of the priorities which they want answer through to this surplus .
this is a situation wonderful .
in this who with the details of the question , I not repeat not my response original if this not is for say that the suggestions of the hon. Senator will delivered to the Minister in question .
the s of the Prime Minister
the Lieutenant - Governor of the Nova - Nova - Nomination of the , - Possibility of a choice not partisan
the hon. Gerald J . Comeau :
honourable senators , more earlier today today in the framework of the statements of senators , we have had right to of the praise and of the comments to the about of the new Lieutenant - Governor of the Saskatchewan . It me brings to me ask when we can we expect to this that the Lieutenant - Governor present of the Nova - Nova , who so to the end of the mandate , be replaced .
the Minister can - he we obligations to the advance for that we can prepare the statements who the imposeront to the opportunity of the replacement ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I am soulagé .
for a moment , I have thought that the hon. Senator possession his Security to this as .
the departure would a great loss for our institution .
the hon. ë A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
there has he of other candidates of the Senate ?
the Senator Boudreau :
in any her , I know to the fair who could be appointed for replace the Incumbent .
I not have not in to of the discussions to this about .
human not me has asked who should be appointed to this as .
and , the of that human not me has nothing asked , I not then that assume that the appointment not is not imminente .
the Senator Comeau :
honourable senators , the Leader of the government to the Senate has mentioned that I could be candidate .
this could be a good idea .
of the Senators :
hear !
the Senator Comeau :
that given of the new direction that the Prime Minister of the Nova - Nova , the Peru Hamm , has taken for try of reduce the number of appointments societies in Nova - Nova , the Minister will he know or promettra he that the Prime Minister federal will to the Prime Minister and to the members provincial of to of this appointment the a of the first appointments not societies to the Canada ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , if the be give on to the proposal of the Senator , I me ask if this would well the a of the first appointments not societies made to the Canada by a Prime Minister , all affiliations political confondues .
I not am that render of the assumptions on the sense of the question .
we can be amorphous that the Prime Minister choisira , for be the new Lieutenant - Governor of the Nova - Nova , a human of a great quality and of a great integrity .
I am course that this are that the first criteria who the guideront .
I am course also that he regard to of the consultation , but I not échafauderai not of assumptions on the structures official of these consultation .
I would extremely surprised the he not in discutait not with different people , which , by example , the Prime Minister of the province .
we can be amorphous that be choisira a Canadian , can - be even a Nova - Nova , of the more honourable .
order DAY THE
the business of the Senate
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I ask that the second point to the order of the day , to know the study of the bill of bill C - 21 , be the Prime to be ' in discussion .
bill of bill of credit No. 3 for 99 - 2000
second Reading
- honourable senators , the bill of bill C - 21 , also known under the behalf of Act of credit No. 3 for 99 - 2000 , for of the appropriation of a amount total of 3,86 billion of $ , pursuant to the Estimates Supplementary of the Estimates ( A ) 99 - 2000 .
the Estimates Supplementary of the Estimates ( A ) is the Prime of the year the ending the 31 March 2000 and is consistent to the forecasts of Estimates made in the budget of the 16 February 99 .
the honourable senators the remember that the Estimates Supplementary of the Estimates ( A ) , 99 - 2000 , has was presented to the Senate the 16 November 99 . - 17 November , the Senate the has referred to the Committee Senate Standing of the Finance national .
our Committee the is met the 23 and 30 November .
the 2 December , the Committee has included the report on the Estimates Supplementary of the Estimates ( A ) in the second report of the Committee of the Finance national .
the senators the recall that , when this report has was adopted the 8 December , be the week last , I have mentioned that this budget had fact the subject of a review detailed and that , the 23 November , our Committee had heard the evidence of the officials of the Secretariat of the Council of the Board , Richard Mr. and Andrew Mr. .
the Committee has found their evidence very useful and informatifs , as of as .
I me touch now on some of the major positions who not had not was définis or enough accompany to the over of the study of the Estimates Main of the Estimates , 99 - 2000 , and who must now be approved by the Parliament to the words of the bill of bill C - 21 .
these funds will to the departments and to the agencies of ensure the degree of Conformity to the year 2000 of their systems and of ensure the of of preparedness international , the coordination core and the planning of the measures of emergency .
a other as important represents a statute of 485,7 million of $ to 65 departments and agencies in under of a clause of postponement for to opposite to of the Estimates of operating of first for for 1998 - 99 .
this clause of postponement characterize the approach of the government , to of reduce the Estimates of end of year and of improve the management of the encaisse of the Budgets of operating .
this clause allows to the managers of until in before , of a year to , who following , a amount as represent until to 5 per of the budget of operating of the year precedent .
the budget of operating includes the salaries , the Estimates of operating and the Estimates in capital high .
a other as important is the statute of 482,5 million of $ to six departments and agencies to of coordinating the activities of the Canada in this who has with to the conflict to the Kosovo .
the Canada at to the efforts of the community international since the beginning of the crisis , in February 1998 . Depuis that the situation has degenerated quickly in March 99 , the Canada makes of the efforts diplomatic and military , and he at actively to the assistance humanitarian to the refugees .
someone 199,4 million of $ are keynotes to the Secretariat of the Council of the Board , who must distribute of the funds to the departments and to the agencies for cover the effects of the conventions collective treaties to this day , and that for do of other identify .
the negotiating collective has an to the beginning of 1997 .
these funds are the costs différentiels rétroactifs and Standing their to the salaries for 99 - 2000 .
he there has 149,5 million of $ for the departments of the Defence national and of the Affairs Veterans , in response to the recommendation of the Committee Standing of the Defence national and of the former Veterans of the House of the Commons , who had examined the questions affectant the life and the families of the members of the Forces Canadian .
this strategy includes several followed , which of the Pages of was and of the Pages for the young of the First Nations and the young Inuit , and it is new on the trade and the development international , the Science and the Technology , and of other programs other for the young .
a amount of 112,2 million does to four departments and agencies for the measures of restructuring and of Standards of the fisheries Canadian to to relieve the impact on the communities and the people of the Coast is of the Elimination of the Strategy of the fish of further of the Atlantic .
of the measures of restructuring and of Standards are also for in the case of the fishing to the salmon on the Coast west .
honourable senators , I in just now to the major positions who archivists only of the departments or of the agencies .
a amount of 108 million of $ is allocated to the Department of the Development of the resources human for the Fund of the Canada for the creation of jobs , this who reflects the commitment that has took the government of the deal to the problems are are opposite the Canadians in the regions where the rate of unemployment is high .
this Department the emploiera , in close cooperation with the other levels of government , the sector private , the agencies of development regional and the organizations community , to stimulate the employment .
a amount of 84,1 million of $ is " to the Department of the Affairs foreign and of the Trade international for there between some provinces a on of the revenues from of the rights paid by the exporters of lumber of implement .
the Department of the Heritage Canadian receives 70 million of $ for improve the programs of support to the languages official in rolls the assistance direct granted to the development of the communities minority and in finançant the agreements federal - provincial , essentially in the field of the education of the language of the minority and of the language second .
honourable senators , the only section not budget is the credit of 50 million of $ an to the Defence national in the purpose of increase provisoirement the advance in the that of funds of working for that the Department can pay his being Canadian in as to the abroad to the case where the a to the year 2000 poserait of the difficulties of feature .
I will to this you bring some information on the changes to the forecasts of the Estimates legislation .
the major positions schemes by the subject of identify of the Estimates expenditures are the following .
the Department of the Agriculture and of the Agroalimentaire receives a Matter of 179,5 million of $ for pay the producers in under of the different elements of the Act on the protection of the income agricultural .
these programs have for subject Prime of ensure the income agricultural for help the producers to at their income and to manage their risks .
many of these programs are administered by the provinces or by of the agencies or boards provincial .
a Matter of 182,3 million of $ has was " to the Department of the Finance to the as of the Payments of equalization paid to the provinces .
this increase reflects the changes opérés in the forecasts on which are refers these Payments , including the public and the revenues tax of a province given .
the 12.5 billion of $ some original in the Estimates Main of the Estimates of the Department of the Finance for the determined to the provinces to the as of the Transfer Canadian in s of health and of programs social have was reduced of 108,5 million of $ .
he the is of cover the increase in value of the transfer in points of tax , result to of the revenues more important from of the tax on the income of the special and of the companies .
the CHST allows of help financially the provinces in the areas of the health , of the education post , of the assistance social and of the services social .
he there has a new credit of 79 million of $ for the Department of the Finance , for of the Payments of Alternative to the as of the programs Standing , to because of the recouvrements more high that some in the Estimates Main .
the recouvrements more high reflect the increase of the income staff and of some other Payments of taxes .
honourable senators , these positions that I just of describe are a increase global of 174,3 million of $ , which , a time shirked the reduction of point million of $ split between of other departments and agencies mentioned in this Estimates Supplementary of the Estimates ( A ) 99 - 2000 , the nutshell to a increase net of 171,1 million of $ .
honourable senators , I thank the new chairman of our Committee , the Senator Lowell Murray , of his as , of the resume to the work and of the i caring .
I thank also a veteran who has an of the service to the Committee , the Senator Doody , who has already served the as prestigious of chairman of this Committee .
that said , honourable senators , and to been all the members of the Committee for their good work , I like now prier all the honourable senators of approve the granting of appropriation to Majesty Majesty and to the government of Majesty Majesty in be the bill of bill C - 21 to that the government of the Canada can vaquer to his Affairs .
the hon. Lowell Murray :
honourable senators , I thank the Senator Cools of his words developed .
I him so the such , but not only for the form because I the thank do of this explanation complete and detailed of this bill of bill of appropriation .
it has our facility my work .
honourable senators , let - I of explain in what context the Senate is these measures .
well heard , in under of the Constitution , we have the right of amend , or even of reject , all bill of bill which we are before .
however , the Senate has recognized that the granting of appropriation , the tax of taxes and the measures financial in General are part of the prerogatives the more jalousement gardées of the House of the Commons .
the Senate évolutif of the after - War has found the way of exercise his responsibilities to as of House equal of the Parliament all in complying the prerogatives of the House of the Commons in these areas .
by therefore , we throw before all the budget to the Committee Senate Standing of the Finance national .
the Committee of the Finance national not taking not necessarily all the programs .
he attempts of study the Estimates of the Administration public federal in a perspective of policy administrative particularly , of so that the mandate not can not be CRTC .
the mandate must be General for the study of the appropriation and of the forecasts .
that not from not a Committee Senate ...
generally , the Estimates of the Estimates is referred to the Committee Senate Standing of the Finance national .
the Committee the examine and in makes that to the Senate .
after what , the Senate this generally the bill of bill of appropriation who we so generally a little more later of the House of the Commons .
I draw the attention of the honourable senators on our report , where several questions important are raised by the Committee .
the Senator Cools has mentioned the 0,5 billion of $ that the government has required in the Estimates of the Estimates Supplementary for solve the problem of the a , year 2000 .
we have also out the been of loans provided to of the governments foreign .
the Committee was of notice that the government would should develop a series of criteria who we have for of determine the relevance of any been of loans to the future .
he would was well also that the be can see a link between the been of the debts of yesterday and our policy of borrowing of tomorrow , but this is that a point of view all to fact staff that I s .
that relates the amount required to this end during the year aware to about 132 million of $ , which 70 million of $ seem be keynotes to the new vessels of the Embassy of the Canada to Berlin .
we would know where will the 60 other million of $ and the Department has promised of we enlighten more later on this question .
we are impatients that he the it .
the question of the recovery of the costs for the inquiry done by the government on the crash of the from of Swissair on the coasts of the Nova - Nova has was raised .
the Senator Barth Ferretti has at was on the fact that he was encourage the government to continue of clamour a allowance of Swissair .
, long term , the Committee is of notice that he must change the sections relevant of the Convention of s to that the carriers air and their assureurs assume a some responsibility for the investigation and the prospect on to the accidents air .
be has found that the Canada is particularly vulnérable on the plan financial because that the number of prohibit in the space Air is more high compared to , of other country .
this question we with to the more senior point , and the Senator Barth Ferretti has reason of ask that the Department of the Affairs foreign the there before as that possible .
honourable senators , the increase of the funds necessary to the program of control of the weapons to gun has certainly drew our attention to the Committee , and the Senator Tkachuk has issue the about during the period of the questions few days after that the Committee the be met .
a other question that we have pressing among as of other - and I attirerais your attention on all the report - is the great question of the Payments paid under the regime of the Act on the responsibility of the state .
this is the a of the issues favoris of the Senator Doody , and he the has continued very effectively , my faith , all as a sure number of other colleagues during our hearings of Committee .
the point raised by the Senator Doody was that be not people no clause in the Estimates of the Estimates for the case on the equity line , that the government has many before the courts - for say the things such that they are .
we our all , I believe , that this is a question of prudence of the on of the government .
in this case - this , he has amassé the money in the credit of the salaries and of the benefits social , where human not could course not the find .
the senior officials we have well said that if be their had asked of the questions in the intervalle , they the have esquivées .
if the be had known how of money the government one of side to the case where he invested his because , the Position legal , for not not say policy , of the government would course was many more precarious .
we understand the context in which the government has tranquillement amassé of the money without would in chiffrer the amount before the day redouté where he would should pay .
that the said , however , for a sure number of years , the government has ' of side of the hundreds of million of $ , to reason of as by year , in the credit of the salaries and of the benefits social .
no of between we not the in is view and no of between we not has asked of question to this about .
now that the case is to his end - the government will still quelquefois on the sellette - the government goes the money pursuant to the section 30 of the Act on the responsibility of the state .
the Parliament not will not the less opportunity of the deal on the question or of discuss of the amount paid , or of the way which he will paid , or of the reasons for which he is paid , or even of the policy of the government , and and of on .
this is a question who has tracassé the best drain of the Committee , be the senators Bolduc , Doody , Cools and Moore , including .
I not should not appoint these senators , because all the members of the Committee the are many it to this question .
we have out our intention of there to also a day .
I not know not this that that will , but I believe that the question is important .
honourable senators , after have followed the remarks order by our colleague , the Senator Cools , and if you jetez a the of i on the report , better still , if you read the report that the Committee has presented on the Estimates Supplementary of the Estimates on which based this bill of bill of appropriation , you agree , I the hope , that the Committee has examined very carefully this budget and that you can in any conscience approve this bill of bill .
( the motion is agreed and the bill of bill is read a second time . )
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when read - we this bill of bill a third time ?
the Senator Cools :
honourable senators , as we the know , a deadline of a day is required for from to the third Reading of the bill of bill , but I believe that he there has a real consensus of the two sides of the House for from as now to the third Reading .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the leave is - it granted , honourable senators ?
the hon. John Lynch - Lynch ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
not .
the Senator Murray :
I not think not that he be possible of to our leave .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the leave not is not granted .
( on the motion of the Senator Cools , the third Reading of the bill of bill is placed to the order of the day of the next Senate . )
bill of bill of 99 for the implementation in implement of conventions tax
third Reading - Continued of the debate
the order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Payette - Hervieux , P , seconded by the hon. Senator Gauthier , Honourable to the third Reading of the bill of bill S - 3 , Act an in implement a agreed , of the conventions and of the protocoles an between the Canada and the Kirghizistan , the Lebanon , the Algeria , the Bulgaria , the Portugal , the Ouzbékistan , the Syria , the Japan and the Luxembourg , in view of avoid the duplicates Socialist and of prevent the evasion tax in s of taxes on the income .
the hon. A . Raynell Andreychuk :
honourable senators , the bill of bill S - 3 has was referred to two committees .
I not will not of the decision of the Committee of the Banking to the regard of the bill of bill or of the study that he him has so .
, first view , the bill of bill S - 3 is , essentially , a legislation to to avoid the double tax .
he with several country with which we have the intention of nothing or in which we want invest , and he is therefore in the interest linked of the Canada and of the country responsible of adopt a such legislation legislative .
honourable senators , the bills of bill can of avoid the double tax not are not a reviews .
the Parliament in receives since very long .
as the have indicated the officials of the Agency of the income , their analysis there two followed for ensure to this that the citizens who sleazy of the Affairs in of other country not be not mobile two time .
the purpose of the bills of bill in s of double tax is of see to this that he not there has not of aim tax .
the bills of bill of this type are to the government more of leviers him can of ensure to this that all the taxes exigibles be surveys .
however , I am summer that the bill of bill S - 3 has fact the subject of the such of review which not have not was submitted of other bills of bill in the past , well that that would should be the case .
he there has a exception dignified of mention , and this is the agreed on the aim tax who has was examined to the Committee of the Affairs foreign , rather that to the Committee of the Banking , in May 1998 . If my memory is faithful , the agreed the was to of the country as the Croatia , the Chile and the Vietnam .
the Committee of the Affairs foreign has has that the be not was not only the preoccupied of tax and that the be was to the legislation legislative in they that of all the aspects of the policy foreign .
as the know the honourable senators , after have began to deal with a country , he so in of many case that we in proficiently to accept their structures , their values and their attitudes .
, the time of the review by the Committee , the Senator Di Nino and of other members of the Committee , which the Senator Grafstein , if I me remind well , have expressed the notice that we should have the insurance that the country with which we covenant of the agreements on the aim tax have the structures appropriate , including of the courts independent .
they must recognize the rule of the right .
honourable senators , be has many was on the question of the confidentiality .
if of the businesses must to case addition - sea and that in reason of a agreed can of avoid the double tax they are held of book their Finance and their guideline of operating to a other country , we must be are that these country not are these information that to the for for in the agreed tax and not for of other reasons .
the experience me has learned that in of many other country , the confidentiality is a concept who not there not .
if a Department receives of the information , he is least respectueux of the rules of procedure , of the confidentiality and of the rights of the special and of the citizens .
fortunately , the number of these country falling , but they are still a about of concern .
in May 1998 , even if we had adopted the bill of bill can of avoid the double tax , we have said that the Department of the Affairs foreign should proceed to a analysis complete for see if the country with which we find sign a agreed can of avoid the double tax had a to acceptable in s of respect of the rights of the human and of the guarantees appropriate in s of form , of practice and of procedure .
we must we ensure that when we covenant the agreed in question , we not help not to so to our citizens and to the citizens of this country .
this observation has was made in this chamber .
we have out to the Department of the Affairs foreign and that to the other departments responsible and to the Senate that all the agreements of this type should be internally to the light of that .
honourable senators , I have said to the representatives of the Affairs foreign that a bill of bill can of avoid the double tax not should not be presented to the Parliament without a analysis complete of the respect of the rights of the human by the country in question .
be we has guaranteed that this such of analysis would in the sense of this that the government of the time occupation as a good practice .
however , the suggestions that we have made to the opportunity of this bill of bill not have not had of on , seems he .
I me am of the fact that the Senator Lynch - Lynch has defended with as of s the question of the respect of the rights of the human , and the Senate should the in thank .
he has has in question the choice of the Committee which this bill of bill would referred .
must - he the refer strictly to the Committee of the Banking or , this who is more logical , to the Committee of the Affairs foreign ?
I am pleased that the Senate has referred this bill of bill to the Committee of the Affairs foreign .
in the intervention , the Senator Lynch - Lynch has indicated that we should , in this chamber , join our actions day to our talk words to the about of the respect of the rights of the human .
I think that we should to that of these about .
in this chamber , we are very proud of our reports .
when these reports are adopted to the unanimously , I am more confiante of the fact that we believe that the out of policy and the recommendations made in our reports have of the value and that the government should in to that .
in our report on the Asia - Pacific , to the page 97 , we have said that the policy foreign with that of factors own to promote the respect of the rights of the human , as the good management of the Affairs public , the democratization and the society civil , the rule of the right and the need of a correction independent .
the list not is not - , but he there has place of to that of these factors before that we not we engagions in of the agreements and of the relations with of other country .
, the page 109 of our report , we have spoke of the principles of a policy Canadian consistent in s of rights of the human .
he becomes of more in more obvious that the questions of trade and of Investment not should not be examined alone of the rights of the human and of the democracy .
we have out in our report a remarks introduced by the hon. Lloyd Axworthy , in which he has said that the rights of the human and the policy foreign menaient to a approach great raisonnée to the regard of the trade international and of the Affairs foreign .
by therefore , as the Committee the has mentioned in the report , the trade and the Investment not are not took alone .
he must the consider elongated with the rights of the human .
he is extremely important , honourable senators , that the image that plans the government of the Canada in the world slow to a approach systematic , consistent and raisonnée to the regard of the rights of the human .
he not must not from the rights of the human of the other questions .
the rights of the human do all our plans of action and all the laws .
we must to all the issues .
before the Committee of the Affairs foreign , the representatives of the new Agency of the income have influencing that they not had examined that the two questions of the evasion tax and of the double tax , because this is the mandate who their has was children .
however , a of the problems , this is that we not have more of Department of the Revenue .
the new agency not is not set to the same practices and to the same principles that a Department plain must respect .
the employees of the Department of the Revenue not have not the same responsibilities to assume .
I out that because , in the chapter of introduction of the report of November 99 , to the page 18 , the Auditor General has said :
however , I am that the government not has not considered enough their impact on the parliamentary of accountable and the Economy .
of by their nature , these mechanisms it in question the relations redditionnelles compulsory where the ministers will that of their political and programs to the Parliament and , by the through of the Parliament , to the citizens in General .
given of that of the third are parties commission to these mechanisms , the ministers not are never fully responsible of them .
in some case , be has intentionnellement established of the mechanisms of way totally independent of the ministers , well that they can make of the funds and of the powers federal .
without parliamentary of accountable and without Economy appropriate , these mechanisms can so to the ability of the Parliament of to in full the use who is made of the powers federal and of protect the right of the citizens to a parliamentary of accountable of the on of the government .
the Agency of the income highlights in implement a policy tax .
it is with of a mandate required and it the be .
when be has asked to these people the they the concern of questions such the rights of the human , the healthy management of the Affairs public and the ability constitutional , they have answered that they the in remettaient to the Affairs foreign .
if the Department of the Affairs foreign as that he there has presence of a relationship diplomatic with a government , the Agency of the income the in with that .
that not fact not part of the mandate , for the moment of the least .
the Department of the Affairs foreign is therefore the body who should to these country to of see if this is the such of country with which we should sign of the agreements international .
of after the testimony of senior officials of the Affairs foreign , he is clear that he not there not to the within of their Department a process independent and systematic who being of determine that the country with which we concluons of the agreements for avoid the double tax are well of the country with which we wish alters and expand our relations .
the Senator Lynch - Lynch has quoted the example of the Ouzbékistan .
the to of the Ouzbékistan not is not copy .
the Ouzbékistan is still mortgaged by the vestiges of the Union Soviet .
he has well made few changes , but he not has not amended substantially his way of manage the Affairs public .
be there has ' of the abuse of the rights of the human and the situation of the rights of the human is still such in Ouzbékistan that that should we concern .
by , , the Ouzbékistan has signed of the pactes international the hiring to respect the rights of the man .
we have to the least that a indication that the country acceptance of put his practices Canada to a control international .
the Union Soviet him has left a heritage disastrous on the plans environmentally and policy .
this who me concern , this is that human not the is concern of whether systematically the situation of the country situations in the bill of bill S - 3 .
I not know not how of other country , by example the Algeria , the Bulgaria , the Syria , the Japan , the Lebanon and the Luxembourg , the compare to the Ouzbékistan , and I not know not where they the Kraft by report to a standard World in s of rights of the man .
I not know not the principles or practices who we allow of decide if such or such country deserves that we traitions with him .
human not seems have directed the problem .
well that I am of agreed with the principle of the conventions to to avoid the duplicates Socialist , I remains outset that we not should not distinguished of country in particular as that we not we are not amorphous , in good government that we are , of the integrity .
he would unfair of suspending a country of the list of the bill of bill S - 3 without have to the pre s systematically all the other with which we have an a such agreement .
as be the knows , the Portugal and the Luxembourg , by example , are of the country who , as the Canada , are members of the NATO and of the OECD and therefore , we are relatively are of their political .
the Canada has always took as as the Declaration Universal of the rights of the man and the is tried of judge the country by report to a standard similar .
we not take no country particular to as of example .
when we not people not with a country or when we mess of have of the relations with a country , this is that , after the have felt that some principles , we feel that this country not has not satisfy to the criteria .
he is clear , of after our analysis of the bill of bill S - 13 , that the government not has not established of standards .
the government not has not respected the requests that him had way the Committee to that he - of the standards .
he would therefore unfair of pointer a country of the doigt to this at .
I not think not that we should judge the people and the country to the accident .
he must judge of manner consistent and systematic .
this approval is linked to the respect of the rights of the human , to the principle of the good government , to the rule of the right and to the independence of the correction which I have spoke .
the message that we sending also to our citizens , this is that they must respect the rule of the double tax and that they must provide of the information financial to a other country .
we must we ensure that , when we covenant these agreements who the will to the businesses who are any to case to the abroad , we begin of means of ensure to this that the information declared by our businesses not be not used to of the for restrict and that our citizens not be not victims of measures or of treatment who would contrary to the standards Canadian .
honourable senators , I have raised the question more of a time , with force I the hope .
the bill of bill S - 3 is that we not have not succeeded the test .
by therefore , I could to say that of other country have failed also .
we must to of the order in we .
the Minister Axworthy about of a policy foreign based on of the principles .
I ask to the government of the Canada and to the Department of the Affairs foreign of to these words in application for that , when we will before of the next bill of bill in s of double tax , the officials can we ensure that of the standards exist and that they are respected by the country with which we covenant the agreements .
the hon. Nicholas W . Taylor :
honourable senators , I have listened with interest the Senator Andreychuk , who has spoke of experience .
I am a member recent of the Committee of the Affairs foreign , but , in the framework of my work in the world of the Affairs , I am went in a 20 of country .
I acknowledge that he not is not also easy that he believe of be sitting to the Senate and of speak of the sense moral and of the rights of the human in the other country and of was their degree of respect of these rights that our own standards .
that me fact think to the legendary currency of Procruste .
when the invited of the home were too great for the reads , Procruste their coupait the feet , and the they were too grandchildren , he their étirait the members .
, some ways , is the such of argument that the senators of the other side are point ; as Procruste , they believe that the country must the adapt to our reads , fault of what we not should not to case with him .
we must to some aspects as the environment and the trade , and not only , of the rights of the human .
, the over of the years , I have found that the better way of to from of good ideas , this is by the through of the trade .
that back can - be to the time where the Portugais have began to the to in Africa , in Asia and and of on .
the Senator Andreychuk :
that we has of the slavery !
the Senator Taylor :
yes , a great number of bad ideas have also was importées in the New third .
however , the trade seemed be the better way of improve the rights of the human and the activity human in each region .
he had of the effects benefit .
be not cannot compare this who the was to the 16 century to the situation current .
we have fact of the progress and he seems that we the must primarily to the trade - and not not because that of the country decision that they are best that the other and that they say of the associate with of other States to least that these the not among also good that them .
this is a way placing of to the question .
the he quarrels , but is still in deçà of the level hoped , we should the encourage in by to nothing with him .
however , the he régresse and removes of the people of rights which they previous a generation before , we should can - be use the trade as a way we can of the get to respect more their environment and the rights of the human .
my training of géologue me because can - be to think that we must determine the they made or régressent .
if a state quarrels , even the he not has not still reached our level , he worth can - be the only of nothing with him .
the Senator has spoke of the Ouzbékistan .
we we are people all two in this part of the world .
this not is can - be not a good idea of choose this country because that he the is to side of the Afghanistan , who is gouverné by a regime taliban .
I a even the Canada to the challenge of be very loving the he had of the Veterans talibans to his border , patrouillant the mountains .
not forget not the problems who confronting the government of the Ouzbékistan .
he not has not to active the - with of the groups domains and developed as the Conservatives , the NDP - i or the Liberal ; his situation is all other .
by therefore , he is a little unfair of say that he should use the even system .
personally , I am of notice that the Ouzbékistan fact of the progress outstanding .
for have past of the time in Iran and in Afghanistan , I am in legislation of say that the Ouzbékistan is in advance on them of several years - light to some ways .
for in to to our about , he becomes difficult of was the progress registered .
we not can that attempt of determine if these country made and we remind the importance historic of the trade since of the time immémoriaux .
if the be not to the first authors grecs who écrivaient on the influence of the Grèce in Africa , be note that this is the trade who has for to the culture and to the ideas of the propager of a region to the other .
he must have confidence and believe that if the ideas and the crops are good , this are they who finiront by survive , rather that of the ideas and of the crops funestes who are that a society régresse on the plan of the respect of the rights of the human .
of way general , honourable senators , despite few reculs here and that , the humanity seems advance and this is to the trade that it the must .
he so sometimes that it the hundred to the missionaries , be before , be after , but the trade is almost always the way the more effective and the more impartiale of to circulation the ideas and the crops .
I not am not of agreed with these people or these groups who trying of we say , here to the Canada , that we not should not deal with a country determined because that he not reached not some standards .
I continues of believe that to long term , the trade make the Canada and the world best .
the Senator Andreychuk :
honourable senators , the Senator Taylor acceptance he of answer to a question ?
the Senator Taylor :
certainly , even if I am very served this night .
the Senator Andreychuk :
I am some that that not will not many of the time .
the Senator we its a argument that I have heard he there has five years in from of the government who " that he must from the trade of the question of the respect of the rights of the human .
more recently however , the Minister Axworthy has clear established that he there has a link between the trade and the rights of the human .
the Senator has raised to fair as a idea with which I am all to fact of agreed , this is - to - say that he would try of see if a country the improving or fact of the efforts for the improve to the chapter of the rights of the human , or the he régresse in this field .
my question includes two followed .
all of first , the Senator not believes - he not that the policy of the government of lier the two areas is fair ?
second , not is - he not of notice that the standard which I was equivalent to the principle that he had mentioned , this is - to - say of determine if a country quarrels or régresse in the matter of the rights of the human ?
the Senator Taylor :
honourable senators , I am happy that the Senator from that we must assessment differently the country who argue and made and those who régressent or suppriment of the rights .
certainly , the weapon ultimate of the trade , this are the sanctions .
we have had use to the sanctions trade in Africa , though some will that they not have not had many of effects supportive .
we have had use to the sanctions in Bosnia ; this is this who has caused the problem of the Kosovo in a some legislation .
I not to not have the air of a rebel , but I not locks not also closely the trade and the rights of the human that not the fact our Minister of the Affairs foreign , that the hon. Senator .
I not am not record to this point .
let a little our relationship with the China .
our trade commercial with the China are many and this trade we quoted many of money , but the standard implemented to this country seems postpone of the that we produced for the Ouzbékistan , where we not achetons that few cuirs and peaux .
other said , we must ensure to this that a economy important in some regions not his not all they of effects délétères .
I believe all of even that the trade is the better way of improve of such situations .
the Minister of the Affairs foreign not me has not poses that a region whatever the is better scope because that we had ' end to our trade commercial with it .
( on the motion of the Senator Lynch - Lynch , the debate is adjourned . )
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , he is now 15 p.m. 30 and , pursuant to the order of the Senate , the Senate the adjourned to 14 p.m. tomorrow .
( the Senate the adjourned to 14 p.m. tomorrow . )
debates of the Senate ( Hansard )
wondering Session , Session st ,
volume 6,401 , Issue 23
the Thursday 16 December 99
the hon. Gildas L . Molgat , Speaker
table of the Contents
' ' '
tributes to the opportunity of his retirement
the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe
the Assembly Parliamentary of the Organization for the security and the cooperation in Europe , held of the 13 to the 15 October 99
these may who have dismantling our history
the Senate
the of of health of the Senator Willie Adams
visitors of in
Affairs routine
security and services of Intelligence
Tabled of the response of the government to the report of the Committee Special
the situation current of the regime financial Canadian and international
Presented of the report of the Committee of the Banking and of the trade
Economy Economy , Budgets and Administration
Tabled of the third report of the Committee
the Act on the Defence national Position Act on the identification by the fingerprints génétiques - Code criminal
report of the Committee
the Act on the statistics Position Act on the Archives national of the Canada
bill of bill Amend - First Reading
the Union Parliamentary
Tabled of the report of the Group Canadian of the Union Parliamentary on the 102e conference Parliamentary held to Berlin , Germany
Tabled of the report of the Group Canadian of the Union Parliamentary on the 54e session of the Assembly general of the Nations Nations held to New York
the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe
Tabled of the report of the delegation Canadian to the conference of the Assembly Parliamentary of the Organization for the security and the cooperation in Europe held of the 13 to the 15 October 99
the Association Parliamentary Canada - France
Tabled of the report of the ninety - ninth meeting Annual of the delegation Canadian held of the 8 to the 15 September 99
the Union Parliamentary
report of the Group Canadian of the Union Parliamentary on the 102e conference Parliamentary held to Berlin , in Germany - Notice of inquiry
PERIOD PERIOD question
the agriculture and the agroalimentaire
the fate of the farmers céréaliers of the Western - Position response to the report of the Committee of the House of the Commons
the difficulties of the céréaliculteurs of the Western
the difficulties of the céréaliculteurs of the Western - - Awaiting of a response of the Prime Minister
the Affairs Intergovernmental
the Ontario - Position Act on the restructuring regional - Position determination of the power legal of the city of Ottawa
the transport
the agreed on the Administration of the airport international of Halifax - - obligation of the government federal of control the nature acide of the ardoise
the Peoples aboriginal
ask of response to the report of the Committee on the former Veterans aboriginal
order DAY THE
bill of bill of appropriation No. 3 for 99 - 2000
third Reading
bill of bill of 99 for the implementation in implement of conventions tax
third Reading
bill of bill on the Agreement final nisga' has
second Reading - Adjourned of the debate
the Assent Royal
bill of bill Amend - Second Reading - Continued of the debate
the Act on the Immigration
bill of bill Amend - Second Reading - Stands of the debate
languages official
Adopted of the second report of the Committee Joint Standing
review of the regulatory
Adopted of the Prime report of the Committee Joint Standing
the Union Monetary European
the report of the Committee of the Affairs foreign - Stands of the debate
the ascertain tabled pursuant to the Act on the transport to the Canada Motion some carriers air Smokers to negotiate and to conclude any agreement Earl - Adopted of the third report of the Committee of the transport and of the Communications
the Ontario
the bill of bill on the restructuring regional - - refusal of to Ottawa officially bilingual - Inquiry - Suspended of the debate
Assent Royal
the Ontario
the bill on the restructuring regional - - refusal of the government summer of adopt the recommendation to to to of Ottawa a city bilingual - Inquiry - Continued of the debate
the recommendations of the Board Royal on the Peoples aboriginal relatively to the service government aboriginal
Adopted of the report of the Committee of the Peoples aboriginal
Affairs Social , Science and Technology
Authorized to the Committee of to the of of the system of health
Affairs foreign
Authorized to the Committee of until the date of the Tabled of the report final on the study of the amendment made to the mandate of the Organization of the Treaty of the Atlantic North
the recommendations of the Board Royal on the Peoples aboriginal relatively to the service government
Authorized given to the Committee of until the Tabled of the report final
the Senate
the granting of a status bilingual to the city of Ottawa - Adopted of the motion
the wish of ë
adjournment
the SENATE
the Thursday 16 December 99
the Senate is met to 14 p.m. , the Speaker the to the Chair .
prayers .
tributes to the opportunity of his retirement
the hon. Joyce Fairbairn :
honourable senators , I like , to the behalf of the Senate , say a word of Adieu Special to a man that I am proud of power call friend , Mr. Richard splendidly , our Clerk Deputy , who at his retirement .
I not like not that Richard we leaving before that he be said publicly how I me fiais to the wisdom , to the know and to the skills that he one generously to my clause , and that , well before that I not between to the Senate .
in read the vitae curriculum yesterday , I have learned that he had began his career here in as that page , in 1956 .
this is the year even where I quittais on for a adventure who was me have , in company of other young students Canadian and American , a little across to the country and until to the Nations Nations for a week .
I had then 16 years and I not was never feat more to the is that s Hat .
but we have all the two attrapé the virus who looms these walls and we in have fact the place of work of any a life .
the first priority was , well course , of meet a some Jean Sutherland , who was considered with all the respect who understandable as , and I quote , " the lady who heads the Senate " .
of after this that I have could was to the time , it seemed may a part key of the good operating of these be .
jean Sutherland had a young including who knew to little close all on the operating of the Senate , the steps of the legislation and the traps in which can let a government négligent who not respect not the procedure in s of consultation and of cooperation .
he was that also for prevent the people as I of embêter Jean Sutherland and he was therefore be to the aware of all this that it was .
the including in question , this is well course Richard splendidly .
addition his skills , Richard was a man charming and we are immediately their of very good friends , even if I the died in principle when someone something walked of go difficulty .
I would until to say that the Senate of the Canada not has never had of employee also assumption that Richard splendidly .
little importait the pressure , this who him importait , this was that all works well in this place and not not the concerns of his searching , what that was their party .
I not the have never seen losing patience or the sense of the humour , contrary to I .
I regret that he has decided of we leave , but I know that his family real - Ethel , Lesley and Steven - will aspects of be the centre of the attention .
I to ensure to Richard that we will always friends .
I him is all my best wish for the new challenges and the new aventures that the life him contingency .
the hon. Sharon Carstairs :
honourable senators , when Richard splendidly is came here in 1956 , he was part of a new group of senators who " of the people as Chubby Power , David Croll , Hartland Molson , Gordon McQueen Fergusson and my father , Harold Connolly .
, from of the time where he has began to work in this chamber , I have began for my on to come visit this chamber , because I illustrate frequently with my father to the over of his first years here .
I know if Richard the knows , but this is to because of I that a Cadillac black in has struck a other before the into of the Senate when the woman of the Senator Basha has was for that I conduise the Cadillac of the Senator Basha .
him and I we memories that to the time , he there had still of the business of sculpture in over in the couloirs .
be montait and démontait the échafaudages and of the day to the next apparaissait a new gargouille .
this are the memories that I have in as that young daughter of 12 to 15 years errant around of this place .
I sharing these memories with Richard splendidly .
honourable senators , he there has a link Special between the as of Leader Deputy of the government to the Senate and the as served by Richard - this is - to - say until to the announcement of his retirement .
each day , normally around of 10 or 11 p.m. , Richard splendidly would in the office of the Leader Deputy with the " scroll " .
many of senators know this that this is , but this are these extensive struggling of paper that held the Leader Deputy of the government and the Leader of the Opposition .
they indicate this who will the produce in this chamber .
I me assoyais with Richard and we deliberate if that understandable for this day - that .
by that , I to say that Michelle MacDonald , my tireless , had great happy to be the mistakes of Richard .
we not in dealing not very often , but when we the were , we we amusions of the fact that the document not be not came under a form perfect as of as .
Michelle the joined to I for say that these times are in my office we are many .
Richard was a professional consumed .
he had a ability incredible of listen , of take note of this that he had heard and of to all this that he could for facilitate a small little the life not only to the Leader Deputy and to the Leader of the government to the Senate , but also to all the other senators in this chamber .
I had need of the support and of the assistance , and he me the has issue so with affection and humour .
I you thank for these years for which we have worked together , Richard .
you will we be .
the hon. Marcel homme man :
honourable senators , he there has here a intrigued that we not had not view .
I believe that this event has many marquéM. splendidly .
honourable senators , I have of the difficulty to believe that the dean of the members of the staff of the two Houses can me abandon and .
I know that after the departure I deviendrai the second more former here , after Herb Gray , of the other place .
Mr. . splendidly and I have often travelled and worked together .
Mr. . splendidly and the wife have was very developed to the a of my kindred to the over of a trip and we are their of good friends .
honourable senators , I not have not prepared of notes because that I not wanted not that my comments taking a their too official .
Richard we will many , but I continues of believe that in end of that , he not we leaving not really .
look - the now , all smiling in something the comments é that we have to the regard .
I hope do that this is this who will come .
however , the he wants of leave truly this place , I to that he far that for my on , I him conserverai always my friendship .
, the behalf of all the honourable senators , I like him to personally , to him , to the wife and to all his friends , our best wish .
the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe
the Assembly Parliamentary of the Organization for the security and the cooperation in Europe , held of the 13 to the 15 October 99
the hon. Jerahmiel S . Grafstein :
the history and the theory of the régionalisme economic have took life to the conference of Nantes under the leadership maker of our good friend Jacques Floch , member distinguished of the Assembly national French .
when Jacques , who is chairman of the Committee of the economy of the OSCE , me has guest , in my quality of vice - chairman of this even Committee , to describe a region unique of the Canada , no not me has which more most that the North Canadian .
if you look a chorus of senior in there , you will that the region Circumpolar is the region the more broader who rest still inexploitée and which be not has not still established the as .
you will that the America of the North and the Europe are géographiquement of " neighbours .
only a étroit what of sea harsh the States - United of the Russia , that where the people the bridge continental called Hormuz of Béring .
remember - you the dream of a a to the China by the North - west who animait the first explorateurs , to begin by Jacques Cartier , who , he there has more of five centuries , the is capable for the Canada of St. - Malo , to the North of Nantes , where has had place our conference .
the a of the North - Western , who facing the summit of the chorus , is long of 2200 to 2900 miles nautiques , following the road exactly .
, as of Chairman of the Group Parliamentary Canada - States - United , I have attended to a conference to Washington to the over of which the Senator Murkowski of the Alaska , our Chairman American , has brossé a picture invigorating of the vision that he had esquissée to our meeting of Quebec , more earlier this year .
he has proposed that the Canada and the States - United bonds their efforts for create a link rail North - south between the Alaska , the Yukon and the British - British , until to the border American , in achevant a section of 900 miles .
the Senator Murkowski has also talked the idea of a other Liaison rail over - beyond of the coasts of the Arctic .
this Liaison rail resulting by a tunnel under the Hormuz of Béring until in Russia continentale .
, this place , the outlines and the America of the North not are separated that by a cinquantaine of miles .
he could therefore there have a Liaison rail and can - be even safety between the Russia , the States - United and the Canada , through to the Technology implementation to the point in Europe for the tunnel under the Manche .
imagine that be can the to of London to Paris in are , borrowing then a transsibérien to great memories for extension the Russia until to the Pacific , preferred then the Hormuz of Béring for to the Alaska , payrolls quickly to the south in from by the Yukon and the British - British until to Vancouver , then filer to the south until to Hollywood or , to the is , until to New York or Halifax on the Coast Atlantic .
all that will possible , economically , to the beginning of the next century .
that could into the hang - form strategic of the economy World and amend profoundly the relations strategic and economic .
I wish to thank of new Jacques Floch , of France , of we have inspired to imagine a great bill septentrional for the 21 century , a bill who awaited of new partnerships economic for the more great well of all the people of the planet .
I take of this opportunity for wish to all the senators a happy new millennium .
these may who have dismantling our history
the hon. Lucie pin :
honourable senators , the century who the work has was witness of important changes for the may in all the jurisdictional of activity .
these changes not have not was possible without the efforts tension of several women really exceptional ; of the women who not have not had afraid of work whether for obtain the justice social and of innover despite of strong oppositions .
in as that society , we their must many .
, the there of the new millennium , he not is that fair of the remind to our remember and of their to tribute .
fault of time , I not cannot appoint all the world .
if I not in appointments today today that few - few , my sincere recognition will to all the may who have served the because of the equality of the women to the over of the century who the work .
we celebrate this year the sixty - tenth anniversary of the case " human " .
impossible of speak of evolution of the women without mention these five pictured may :
Irene Parlby , Nellie McClung , Emily by , Henrietta Muir Edwards and Dupuis McKinney , who have took the Committee judicial of the Council private to to that the word " human " in the Act of the America of the North British incluait the women and that the women could be appointments to the Senate .
and that say of Agnes MacPhail , first woman to be elected to the House of the Commons in 1921 ?
without it and without these five pictured may , how of between we would here today today ?
Ms Th Casgrain has was the first CIBC to lead a party policy .
of 1942 to 1962 , it has was elected nine time in of the legislatures legislation federal and provincial .
Jeanette Viviane Corbiere Lavell is a other woman exceptional who has spent his life to defend the right of the women aboriginal .
in 1971 , it has challenged the section 12 of the Act on the Indian , who was losing the status of Indian to the women aboriginal who épousaient of the not - aboriginal .
the Court Supreme rejeta his request , but Sandra Lovelace décida of to the case before the Board of the rights of the human of the Nations Nations , and the Act on the Indian has was amended in 1985 .
he there has also Madeleine chairpersons who , for 40 years , has was active in the movement syndical to the Quebec .
in 1942 , it has chaired to the syndicalisation of the plants of manufacturing of Clothing Dominion Textiles who employaient particularly of the women .
he not must not forget also gun Senator Yvette Rousseau , who has was a of the pionnières of the syndicalisation in the plants of manufacturing of the is .
he not must not forget secretary Livingston , chairman courageous of the Canadian Negro Women' s Association , who has was the cheville classes of the Prime convention national of the women on to Toronto .
the convention there still today today , a testimony sustainable of his efforts .
between other héroïnes Canadian , mentionnonsElizabeth Bagshaw , the Dr. ' Powell and the docteurLise Fortier .
the Dr. Bagshaw has was Director of the first donor of control of the births to the Canada .
it has led the donor of the Ontario , diagrams , of 1932 to 1966 .
the Dr. Powell has fact of even to Toronto .
for his on , the docteurLise Fortier has established the first donor of planning of the births to the Quebec and has fought whether for obtain the right to the free choice for the women to the Canada .
many are the women exceptional who have dismantling our history , that this be in the areas of the policy , of the care of the health or of the rights of the human .
all be fact evidence of courage , of tenacity , of leadership and of ability .
without they , the Canada not would not the democracy bequeath , prosperous and copy that he is today today .
hope that the 21 century will as of héroïnes that this last decade .
and can these words of Nellie McClung sustains our héroïnes of tomorrow :
the Senate
the of of health of the Senator Willie Adams
the hon. Isobel Finnerty :
honourable senators , I am very pleased of attention that the Senator Willie Adams , who has - a operation much important , yesterday , the served extremely well and , hope - the , will of return soon .
the pronostic is excellent .
visitors of in
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I you attention the presence to our gallery of the woman deRichard splendidly , Ethel , and of their son , Steve .
honourable senators , I know that the attests not are not given to to a remarks , but , in this opportunity , I like thank personally Richard , a friend with who I have worked for more of 29 years .
Affairs routine
security and services of Intelligence
Tabled of the response of the government to the report of the Committee Special
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I have the honour of table , with a happy that partageront surely of other senators when they the liront , the response of the government to the report of the Committee Special of the Senate on the security and the services of Intelligence .
the situation current of the regime financial Canadian and international
Presented of the report of the Committee of the Banking and of the trade
the hon. E . Leo Kolber , chairman of the Committee Senate Standing of the Banking and of the trade , its the report following :
the Thursday 16 December 99
the Committee Senate Standing of the Banking and of the trade has the honour of to the
third REPORT
your Committee , who has was authorized by the Senate the Tuesday , 23 November 99 to to the situation current of the regime financial Canadian and international and to to report to the more later the 31 December 2000 , ask respectfully that the Committee be authorized to clerical the services of lawyers , of counsel technical and of all other staff felt necessary , and that to the adjourn of a place to the other to the Canada and to the abroad to the for of the inquiry .
the budget was presented to the Committee Standing of the Economy Economy , of the Budgets and of the Administration the jeudi16 December 99 . cases the second report , the Committee of the Economy Economy has noted that he are to a study of the situation budget of the committees of the Senate and fact the recommendation that 6 / 12 of the funds accorded be libérés of here the 10 February 2000 .
this report was adopted by the Senate the Tuesday 14 December 99 .
respectfully submitted ,
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when consideration - we the report ?
( on the motion of the Senator Kolber , the study of the report is placed to the order of the day of the next Senate . )
Economy Economy , Budgets and Administration
Tabled of the third report of the Committee
with the leave of the Senate , I like say here few words .
the Hon. the Speaker :
leave granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator Rompkey :
honourable senators , I wish to wish the welcome to Gary O Brien in the new as .
of the Senators :
hear !
the Senator Rompkey :
Gary not has not need of Presented .
he we there faithfully and well .
he not has the air of nothing , but the humility his a great experience and a great know .
he is true in the case that he must the suspicious of the water who dort .
Mr. . Gary O Brien , Ph . D . , is professor of loosely and is including a an of John F . Kennedy .
this is a enseignant .
he at to a sure number of activities extraparlementaires for the more great honour of our legislature .
by - with all , Gary we has provided a service outside fine .
this is a of these people for which the word service has a sense .
I have was impressed by the included which fact evidence Gary in the framework of the services that he we provides .
he to that the things be made as he must and he not ménage no effort to this end .
I know that he will this attitude in the new as .
I you wish the welcome in your new as , Gary , and I you offer our congratulations .
let - I of recount a history apocryphe .
I not you say not who in is the author , but I me am left say that to the time of the arrived of Richard to the Senate , he there had on place a habit for the human who comblerait the as .
this was a habit for a man of low size and of enough strong form .
Richard had all this that he was for hériter of this habit .
he has from the as and he is with we since this time .
by therefore , be can say that to the Senate , in the case of Richard , the habit fact the moine .
the Senator Carstairs has said that Richard has known a sure number of taken of bec , which a to which it has also was mêlée .
I am sure that Richard has had knowledge of more of a taken of bec in this House to the over of the years .
he is came that of eminent legal of the country the this here for the ceremony without have the Authorized written that and Richard the has removed for that they undermine the the you .
goes , this is the year of the power .
Richard , I you greetings also the congratulations of Gerry and of Nicky .
honourable senators , I to also congratulate the table to the Board who have accédé to of other positions .
we their wish the welcome in their new duties .
we the félicitons and we the remercions of their work in the past .
we know that they continue to we provide a work of high quality in the future .
I wish also to thank all the people who working for we , here as , , and who held our issues .
we the remercions of the service of high quality that they we have provided .
I wish to each of between they and to all the honourable senators of very joyeuses celebrations .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , the leave is - it granted to the hon. Senator Nolin of take the speak ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the hon. Pierre Claude Nolin :
honourable senators , I like also , to as of vice - chairman of your Committee of the Economy Economy , of the Budgets and of the Administration , wish the welcome to Gary O Brien and any the opportunity necessary for chamber this work .
I know enough well Gary for have worked with him to the over of the five past years to the Committee of the Economy Economy .
this is a man very effective , by against , very should .
as the said the Senator Rompkey , behind this face dark the his certainly a man effective and " .
I me join therefore to the Senator Rompkey for him wish good opportunity and that to his colleagues of the Board who have accédé recently to of new responsibilities .
the Act on the Defence national Position Act on the identification by the fingerprints génétiques - Code criminal
report of the Committee
the hon. Lorna Milne , chairman of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional , its the report following :
the Thursday 16 December 99
the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs legal and Constitutional has the honour of to the
third REPORT
your Committee , which has was obedience the an of bill S - 10 , Act amend the Act on the Defence national , the Act on the identification by the fingerprints génétiques and the Code criminal has , pursuant to the order of referred of the jeudi18 November 99 , examined obedience bill of bill and in fact now report with the amendments following :
page 18 , section 19 :
has ) Substituer , to the line 25 , this who following :
" 19 .
b ) Ajouter , after the line 38 , this who following :
respectfully Before ,
the chairman ,
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when consideration - we this report ?
( on the motion of the Senator Milne , the study of the report is placed to the order of the day of the next Senate . )
the Act on the statistics Position Act on the Archives national of the Canada
bill of bill Amend - First Reading
the hon. Lorna Milne its the bill of bill S - 15 , Act amend the Act on the statistics and the Act on the Archives national ( documents of rencensement ) .
( the bill of bill is read a first time . )
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , when read - we this bill of bill a second time ?
( on the motion of the Senator Milne , the second Reading of the bill of bill is placed to the order of the day of the Senate of the mardi8 February 2000 .
Tabled of the report of the Group Canadian of the Union Parliamentary on the 102e conference Parliamentary held to Berlin , Germany
the hon. Sheila Finestone :
honourable senators , I have the honour of table the report of the Group Canadian of the Union Parliamentary , who has represented the Canada to la102e conference Parliamentary held to Berlin , in Germany , of the 10 to the 16 October .
Tabled of the report of the Group Canadian of the Union Parliamentary on the 54e session of the Assembly general of the Nations Nations held to New York
the hon. Sheila Finestone :
honourable senators , I have the honour of table the report of the Group Canadian of the Union Parliamentary who has represented the Canada to the 54e session of the Assembly general of the Nations Nations held to New York du25 to the 27 October 99 .
the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe
Tabled of the report of the delegation Canadian to the conference of the Assembly Parliamentary of the Organization for the security and the cooperation in Europe held of the 13 to the 15 October 99
the hon. Jerahmiel S . Grafstein :
honourable senators , I have the honour of table , in the two languages official , the report of the delegation Canadian of the Association Parliamentary Canada - Europe entitled : " Document of Nantes " , who relates on the second conference of the Assembly Parliamentary of the Organization for the security and the cooperation in Europe , held of the 13 to the 15 October 99 to Nantes in France , where he has was question of the process of cooperation economic infrarégionale in Europe to the light of the new challenges to met .
the Association Parliamentary Canada - France
Tabled of the report of the ninety - ninth meeting Annual of the delegation Canadian held of the 8 to the 15 September 99
the hon. é - A .
honourable senators , I have the honour of table the report of the ninety - neuvièmeréunion Annual of the delegation Canadian various Association Parliamentary Canada - France , who has had place to Montreal , Laval , Ottawa , Vancouver and Victoria , of the 8 au15 September 99 .
the Union Parliamentary
report of the Group Canadian of the Union Parliamentary on the 102e conference Parliamentary held to Berlin , in Germany - Notice of inquiry
the hon. Sheila Finestone :
honourable senators , I give notice that to the second day of the next Senate , the 8 February 2000 , I call the attention of the Senate on the report of the Group Canadian of the Union Parliamentary on la102e conference Parliamentary held to Berlin of the 9 au16 October 99 .
PERIOD PERIOD question
the agriculture and the agroalimentaire
the fate of the farmers céréaliers of the Western - Position response to the report of the Committee of the House of the Commons
the hon. Leonard J . Gustafson :
honourable senators , my question the is to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
I have was very disappointed of read this morning in the National Financial that the Prime Minister the tighten on the question of the crisis in the agriculture only after the period of the celebrations .
I with of the questions to this about since a year and half .
the first ministers provincial and even Dennis Mills now - and I him in know and - indicate that they will draw the attention of the writings of Toronto to the way of a day of lot .
the Committee of the agriculture of the House of the Commons the is record in the Prairies and I have in to two of his eight meetings .
this Committee has fact of the excellent work .
he has recognized that he there of serious problems , that the agriculture is in crisis and that the program ACRA not give not the results was .
the Committee has he fact on of his findings to the Prime Minister and to the cabinet ?
I believe understand that the House of the Commons not approaches probably not his business before the 7 February .
the Committee has he fact of the recommendations to the Prime Minister and to the cabinet to the on of this that he has found in the Prairies ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I say as the hon. Senator that the Committee of the House of the Commons has fact a excellent work for that he was in the Prairies .
he there has heard of the opinions strong which he has fact on to the Prime Minister , to the Minister of the Agriculture and to of other ministers .
the Prime Minister has had the opportunity of speak to the members of the cabinet of the tour of the Committee in the Prairies and he is very to the aware of the problem .
he the can that he not there has not , as he has was said in the section , of meeting if of the first ministers of here ë , but nothing not allows of assume that the Prime Minister has decided of to this problem on a seaway of garage .
the Senator Gustafson :
honourable senators , be can the ask what degree of emergency the situation will to before that the Prime Minister the in ' .
the Prime Minister has he met the Committee ?
I was Secretary Parliamentary of the Prime Minister Mulroney and he not in was not as that that for organizing to the people who had a serious problem a meeting with him .
this Committee has fact a wonderful work - and I was that for the see .
he has recognized that the program ACRA not operated not , that he was fully réorienter the sector agricultural affected and that this was a problem national very serious .
I not can understand why he not uniting not to obtain a meeting with the Prime Minister .
the Senator Lynch - Lynch :
on what ground of golf is - he ?
this is this that he must discover .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I know what meetings have could have place between the Prime Minister and the members of this Committee .
I know however that the members of the Committee , are or in group , have fact on of their opinion to the Prime Minister , to the Minister of the Agriculture and to of other also .
as to the arrangements who will took for the held of a meeting if , I not in know nothing for the time .
I am sure that the Prime Minister knows the opinions of the members of the Committee and that he the looking of the problem to the over of the next weeks and of the next months , even the he not there has not of meeting if of the first ministers .
the difficulties of the céréaliculteurs of the Western
the hon. David Tkachuk :
honourable senators , I have a question supplementary to for to this regard .
if the mother deDavid Wappel was of meet the Prime Minister present rather that the precedent , I think that David Wappel croupirait always in other .
of the Senators :
the Senator Tkachuk :
well well , the time is come of abolish the their in this Room !
the Senator Graham :
Senate reasonable .
posez a question .
the Senator Tkachuk :
I the am .
of this side - this of the chamber , we have was very patients .
we posons these questions since a year and half .
this not is not as if we not the had fact that yesterday .
I the have fact I also .
even of the senators of in opposite the have fact ; this is the case , including , of the Senator Sparrow .
we have asked this question to and occasions and the only response that we are obtenue , this is : " We will to that .
can - be that the program fact is . "
all the world knows to the Canada that the program fact is .
the Prime Minister the abstiendra he of to of the loans and of the grants in his riding for the period of the celebrations or continue he of open all major the vannes of the Board public for his riding for that he the fermera for the Prairies ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , the Prime Minister will very served with all the problems economic of the country and he not will that very little of during what that be the period of the year .
I not to not fall the serious of the situation with which are to the taken the farmers , in the Prairies including .
however , I wish to remind to the honourable senators that the government the is committed to provide a assistance not but .
of any obviously , the program - as we the have said to the over of the debate to the Senate - not give not the results was .
we we are " to the review and to ensure to this that the money be paid more quickly to the farmers .
in addition , since my arrived , 170 million of $ of more have was will to the program .
the Prime Minister shares , who wish so a assistance Supplementary , has chosen of not not the Services to would the even amount even if the agreement on the funds additional for that the province must the to .
I not in am not course , but I think that the Prime Minister shares has presented a budget all recently .
what that he in be , the government provincial not seems not have provided of to of new appropriation .
he the summer of in clamour to the government federal .
Mr. . shares the vaunts since few years already of his surpluses budget successive .
he in is very proud , and to fair as of , .
however , the he to to the problem , he will that he the this to table him also .
the difficulties of the céréaliculteurs of the Western - - Awaiting of a response of the Prime Minister
the hon. A . Raynell Andreychuk :
honourable senators , I have a question supplementary for the Leader of the government to the Senate .
the Prime Minister shares has was full , to my notice , of not not invest more in a bad program .
I believe by therefore that the response given by the Leader of the government not dédouane not this last .
the Saskatchewan souhaiterait that the Prime Minister starts by clear would that the question the concern .
a such statement convaincrait the public of the province that the Canada at to heart his interests .
then , he will would that of the neutralizes will Regional .
, this day , we have had right to the speech nobles of the ministers and other members , but the Prime Minister not in has certainly not fact a priority .
if the Leader of the government not the méprend on the intentions future of the Prime Minister , then the better something that he can to to the opportunity of ë this is of we give a sign tangible .
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I am someone little in disagreement with the approach generous of the Senator to the regard of the Prime Minister of the Saskatchewan . I not am not a expert in the s , but be me said that the provinces have in to the institution of these criteria .
he there has had a process and he the was of a program earnings .
he is true that the program not works not as he the must .
we have discussed of that here and to of other places .
the program not is not also effective that he the should and the Minister of the Agriculture has said that the are should be examined and corrigées .
the Senator Tkachuk :
a government of coalition !
the Senator Boudreau :
I not have not the figures in with , but I me remind have read that the government of the Saskatchewan had reduced of way important the assistance made in the sector of the agriculture .
these cuts were of the order of 60 à70p. per on 10 years .
I think that he him responsibility to the least of say that he is prepared to débloquer of the funds .
the government federal has spent 170 million of $ to the program .
if this program had provided a funding of States , the government federal would could say that he not would not would these 170 million of $ to least that the Prime Minister shares not designed a amount same .
that would was consistent with the program earnings .
the government federal not in has nothing fact .
the Prime Minister shares not has not provided a funding and he not has not offered of other funds to my knowledge .
the Senator Andreychuk :
as my mother the would , be not répare not a inequity by a other inequity .
if the Prime Minister shares not fact not this who the is or not has not fact this who the numbers , this not is not a apologize for the Prime Minister of the Canada .
he is responsible to the regard of all the country .
we have need of a signal of the on of the Prime Minister and of human of other for that the people know that the problems of the Saskatchewan are important and that he will the there deal .
that would in a broad legislation of improve the fate of the people of the Saskatchewan which the future is agony .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I understand the concern raised by the Senator Andreychuk .
I am sure that this problem who tragedy the farmers of the Prairies concern the Prime Minister .
as I the have fact in the past , I will certainly to on to the Prime Minister and to the Minister of the Agriculture of the discussions who have had place in this chamber .
the Affairs Intergovernmental
the Ontario - Position Act on the restructuring regional - Position determination of the power legal of the city of Ottawa
the hon. Jean - Robert Gauthier :
honourable senators , the board City of Ottawa has discussed and adopted yesterday a motion Requesting to the province of the Ontario of designate officially bilingual the city of Ottawa who will created the year next .
that a section which in the newspaper - fervent today today , the new city not will not the right of the designate bilingual .
in effect , a decision of the Court Superior of the Ontario would said , in 1986 , in the case of Kapuskasing , that this city not had or the right or the power of the designate officially bilingual .
this is therefore a other Moores in the mare !
of a on , the bill 25 , habilitant the restructuring of the new city of Ottawa , is service on the question .
I recommends that the bill enabling - and studs the quoted of Ottawa officially bilingual in French and in English .
the province would answered that the new board who will elected , in November 2000 , will the power of decide of the status linguistic of the new quoted of Ottawa .
the Minister can - he we say if the Prime Minister of the Ontario plays to the about in this case in knowing very well that the new quoted of Ottawa not can not the to officially bilingual , with the equality of the rights in English and in French ?
the Minister can - he ensure this House that he cherchera to to tidy this question by the legal and to end to the uncertainty and to the confusion created by the decision Mr. Harris ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , the question raised by the hon. Senator Gauthier has was scope to my attention more earlier today today .
I have could me information to this about .
the new pay , as all the municipalities of the province and , in fact , of the country , is in effect legally of the government provincial and is set to the bill provincial .
it ) the authority in the framework constitutional .
this authority him is cheap by a bill provincial .
of after my knowledge and my information , the new pay of Ottawa , as any other pay of the province of the Ontario , not has or the jurisdiction or the authority , in under of the bill who radical the municipalities , for the to bilingual .
he there a bill in Ontario on the Benefit of services in French who allows to the municipalities of to some services bilingual by - City .
in fact , the pay can decide that of the services will available in the two languages in a case or in the other .
however , that not him give not the right of the to officially city bilingual .
be me has said that this is the province of the Ontario who Canada this power .
the former city of Ottawa , if I can the call and , has acted in under of this bill and of regulations municipal for to of the services bilingual .
be me has explained that these services bilingual will in place until to this that of the regulations municipal changed that .
determine if the new city of Ottawa will officially bilingual is of the only jurisdiction of the province of the Ontario .
the hon. Serge Joyal :
honourable senators , my question the is to the Leader of the government and relates on the even question .
when I have had the opportunity of take the speak to the Senate this week , our colleague , the Senator Grafstein , has spoke of the possible that the government federal recoure to the authority on the Administration regional of the capital national or to the power of cancellation .
I was of notice that the second proposal not would not the welcome as Prime choice .
yesterday , the Minister of the Affairs Intergovernmental has said this :
we must to the means constitutional which we begin for help to with the situation in the circumstances current .
that the newspaper The Toronto Star of today today , of the experts of the Constitution feel that the government federal could would the sustains of a decision of the Court Supreme of the Canada made in the years 60 and him easier the power of legislation when he the is of questions related to the capital national .
the Leader of the government to the Senate will he to the Minister of the Justice and prosecutor General of the Canada if , in under of the decision of the Court Supreme of the Canada , the government federal can point the power General of legislation on of the questions related to of the problems national , there including to the capital national , for to of the new city of Ottawa a city bilingual ?
the Senator Boudreau :
I am course that all the honourable senators would that this problem be resolved in the framework of a intervention clear of the province of the Ontario to to to the capital national officially bilingual .
the government has indicated that he analysis the choice possible .
no decision not has still was taken to this regard .
be can still hope that the Prime Minister Harris and the government interviendront of way that .
if , I am course that I can would the ask of the hon. Senator Joyal and ask to the Minister appropriate of the with also on this possible if it not is not already to the study .
the hon. Gerald J . Comeau :
honourable senators , the Senator has asked the question that I had in head .
the status of city bilingual represents a little more that the allocations of services bilingual to Ottawa .
Ottawa , the capital of our nation , must send a message clear across to the country in to a status bilingual .
I out with force that this status of city bilingual represents more that the allocations of services in French .
the Senator Boudreau :
I thank the hon. Senator of this comment .
, this regard , the pay not has not of power .
the hon. Jerahmiel S . Grafstein :
honourable senators , my question Supplementary the is to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
I have asked a question to the Senator Joyal to the about of the power of repeal .
he has answered and I have since during discovered that the power of repeal has was used regularly until to he there has about a Î of years .
I believe understand that he is piece in into .
he there of the points of view constitutional on this question , but he is always provided in the Constitution .
the Leader of the government to the Senate can - he ask to the prosecutor General of the Canada if , in extremis , this who that good number of between we seems be the case in this situation , the power of repeal could or not be adopted for a legislation legislative who , to our notice , not concorde not with leXXIe century and the Canada ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I am sure that the prosecutor General analysis now all the solutions possible who could be adopted .
no of between they not is a solution privileged .
the option privileged , this is that the government and the Prime Minister of the Ontario act .
I verrai to this that this solution be also Before to the prosecutor General .
the hon. Marcel homme man :
honourable senators , for six years to the Senate and 30 years to the House of the Commons , I have enough clear expressed my Position on this that is guarantee the Canada .
in all country , he there has a capital .
some the our the capital national , I the Order the capital federal because that this is a institution federal .
if the capital national the must of dawn the history and the diversity of our country , the hon. Senator Hays of the Alberta , the hon. Senator Marcel homme man and the other must the there feel to the comfortable .
I have a approach different .
I will all to for depoliticize the question ; I will speak to a group to the Parliament torontois , the Friday 14 January , to the heart even of the Parliament provincial .
all the senators must speak collectively , some in premier the seaway legal and of other in looking to persuade .
finally , we should to understand to the Canadians that we not asking not that all the cities be bilingual .
this is a other debate .
we should to point clear - and I cannot and to the Minister of the express briefly that - with - that he there has a difference between the debate regarding the capital federal and all the other questions .
this is a debate all to fact distinct .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , I say to the honourable senators , as I the have already mentioned of , , that his words very éloquents on the question , I could the to rereading .
of the points of view views here to this about he the temporal a sure number of things .
first , the senators taking very to the seriously this case who is a interest capital for our country .
second , this not is not a question of debate partisan .
the senators of the two sides of the House the are given that - with and I think that we have demonstrated far that he not the is not of a question of debate partisan .
third , that with this city in as that it is the capital national or , as said the Senator , the capital federal .
I have expressed my point of view on the question and I will of the to .
the opinions of the honourable senators are well whom and are to take to the seriously .
I am sure that the government the sharing .
the hon. é - A .
honourable senators , my question the is to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
if a study is made by the prosecutor General of the Canada on the status bilingual of the capital of the Canada , not could - we not also study the section 16 of the Constitution regarding directly the capital of the Canada and also the power résiduel of the Parliament Canadian , to the section 95 , in under which some powers are issue and recognized by the jurisprudence for the region of the capital national of the Canada .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , the prosecutor General is in as that Main lawyer of the government of the Canada .
as the would all lawyer appropriate , it is the options and in its a series to the government in will that no of these options not will necessary and that the problem the denying other .
I me commitment to would the essential of the remarks of the hon. Senator to her the prosecutor General .
I am sure that it will all the options available , as all lawyer conscientious the would to the behalf of a client .
the hon. Sheila Finestone :
honourable senators , my question the is to the Leader of the government to the Senate .
that given of the situation and of the obligation of the government of designate Ottawa officially bilingual , this along programs - it all the principle of equality to the words of the status official , there including the equality on the plan of the rights and privileges , and not only on , of the language ?
the question with the expression even .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , of any obviously , the ramifications of the status fully bilingual would forthcoming by the court .
I rise this commitment not only to the regard of the hon. Senator Finestone , but also of the other honourable senators who are we on the about .
the transport
the agreed on the Administration of the airport international of Halifax - - obligation of the government federal of control the nature acide of the ardoise
the hon. J . Michael Forrestall :
honourable senators , my question to the Leader of the government to the Senate is suscitée by the concern made regarding the arrangement between the government of the Canada and the Administration interim of the airport international of Halifax who will officially the full responsibility of the airport in February .
of such are a problem who , to this that I thought , had was has to the beginning of the negotiations .
my question relates on the measures who must be taken regularly for control the nature acide of the ardoise to the airport and all around .
as the Minister the knows , the airport the at on a Hill of where the water acre in of grandchildren affected , this who can give place to some dangers .
the Minister has he release with the responsible of the new Administration of the airport to the about of this question to the regard of which they feel that the authorities federal are revenues on their speak ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , I am to the aware of the situation which about the hon. Senator .
these negotiations the along as all negotiations .
be Shipping of the two sides , this is as as .
be advance his Position , be fact of the compromise .
I have spoke to the responsible of the Administration aéroportuaire after that they have agreed and signed the agreed .
I not think not that he has was amended after have was signed .
the Senator Forrestall :
honourable senators , he is therefore exactly that the 8,700 . $ who have was oversight for take of the measures corrective are always part of the agreed , that , as be the claims , the federal not continue not to assume the responsibility of the damage who into of acuity to the future , and that this question has was resolved ?
is - he exactly that a agreement to this regard is in place and that if someone something was come , this would between now and the mid - February , when the taken in for become official ?
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , as that I the far , the agreed covers of the questions such that the liabilities environmental and the responsibility of the costs of operating , there including those who are stretched to the environment .
the essential , this is that the agreed that the Administration and the Department of the Transport have signed was these questions and that , to my knowledge , he not has not was amended since that the Administration the has signed .
I am sure that , as this is the case in all negotiations , the agreed not contains not all this that wanted the Administration and contains more that this that the Department of the Transport was prepared to independently .
however , as that I the far , the two parties have signed a agreed final who rule the questions raised by the hon. Senator .
I know the he the rule to the satisfaction of all , but he the rule .
he has was signed by the two parties .
the Senator Forrestall :
honourable senators , the Minister not is therefore not in legislation of we say if the 8,700 . $ by year will available for take the measures corrective necessary .
I am course that this is that where in are the things to the hour current .
the Senator Boudreau :
honourable senators , this brief meeting has had place he there has three weeks or more .
for as that I me sacked , the amount of 8,700 . $ before serve to with this problem is her in the agreement .
I vérifierai the data for be sure of this that I advance , but I me recall very specifically that , when I have met the group , the agreement had was signed .
it address of all the questions and I not believe not that be has amended this agreement since during .
the Peoples aboriginal
ask of response to the report of the Committee on the former Veterans aboriginal
the hon. A . Raynell Andreychuk :
honourable senators , I for the government of have answered in time timely to the report of the Committee Special of the Senate on the security and the services of Intelligence .
we consacrons of long p.m. to the drafting of our reports in this place and the government the consult often for develop his policy government .
however , when can - we hope receive the response that we had demandée to the report of the Committee Senate of the Peoples aboriginal on the former Veterans aboriginal ?
the Senator Fairbairn was Leader of the government to the Senate to the time of the Presented of this report .
it we had assured that we the recevrions because the government there working .
well of the former Veterans aboriginal are dead since the Presented of the report .
the response of the government is extremely important for those who remain in life .
he is is of not not forget these people who have ' their life in calling for ensure our security .
when receive - we the response of the government ?
the hon. J . de Boudreau ( Leader of the government ) :
honourable senators , this is the first time that be relates this question to my attention .
I will bring with the Minister responsible and try of obtain a response to the question of the hon. Senator .
I the receive probably to the over of the break and I should power the him provide to the resuming of the business .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I regret , but the period of the questions is now completed .
order DAY THE
bill of bill of appropriation No. 3 for 99 - 2000
third Reading
the hon. ë A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , this is very well that he the be has enough of time between the Reading to the step of the report and the third Reading of the bill of bill C - 21 because that we has for of look a last will on this bill of bill .
I attirerais the attention of the honourable senators on the fact that this bill of bill the entitled : " Act to granting to Majesty Majesty of appropriation for the Administration public federal for the year the ending the 31 March 2000 " .
the section 6 , to the page 3 of this bill of bill states that :
... ... ... he is possible of at a credit we of the its bill or of any other bill and provided to the as 2 after the horses of the year following , for which he is " ... ... ...
other said , the section 6 of the bill of bill parliament to Authorize of the Estimates postérieurement to the 31 March 2000 .
in the 286 Parliamentary of Beauchesne , 6e edition , he there has to the page 258 a description of the business of the subsides and Ways and means .
under the Order " Presented " , to the comment 933 , we can read :
a budget of Estimates has for subject of bring to the Parliament the proposals budget and extra - budget of the government for the year to come .
honourable senators , the section 6 of the bill of bill with a problem .
there has he to that a explanation simple that could we to share a member of our Committee of the Finance national who has examined the bill of bill in detail ?
the hon. Anne C . Cools :
honourable senators , I thank the hon. Senator Kinsella of his question .
if I understand well , his question has with to the fact that a credit seems chevaucher two million .
the he had out this point for the hearings of the Committee , we have could the to more in detail .
I think that the even something the is has in the case of the last bill of bill of appropriation and that the Senator Bolduc had then raised the question .
I believe that the response of the Department was that the credit had was an in a only year , but that the Estimates the étendraient on two years .
if we about of the even something - and I believe that be we had then said in substance that this not was not came - that had the air of become a practice a little more day to because of the difficult and of the size of these appropriation .
I hope that I have answered to the question of the Senator , but I am interested to to the case more in detail .
I the as , a part of the question of the Senator me has escaped .
the Senator Kinsella :
honourable senators , is the problem and is the principle .
, the page 31 of the bill of bill , the as 2 for this :
of after the Estimates Supplementary of the Estimates ( A ) of 99 - 2000 , the amount " is of 234 733 521 $ , be the total of the amounts of the positions of this budget formula to the its as .
the as 2 add this :
are awarded by the its bill to Majesty Majesty for the year the ending the 31 March 2 . , as be imputées to the year in over and to the year following the ending the 31 March and for which they are awarded .
that is particularly the Agency of the customs and of the income of the Canada , but the situation there is and well and he must the ask if the be fact well of consider a such practice .
I not wish not to point the Rules to this regard , but the Committee of the Finance national want well to the fact that be vote a credit who must be spent to the more later the 31 March 2000 .
the Senator Cools :
I am interested to local to the Senator Kinsella that our Committee - and I then consult the chairman , the Senator Murray - will this question and the will more in detail .
if the phenomenon seems récurrent , we should be to know why .
I rise the criticism and the opinion of the Senator very to the seriously and I me commitment to me with of this case .
honourable senators , yesterday , in my intervention to the step of the second Reading of the bill of bill C - 21 , I have of of the details internal on the substance of the bill of bill .
the Senator Murray , chairman of the Committee of the Finance national , has took on to the debate and we has release of the information very appropriate and détaillées .
I should however add , mid - figue , mid - they , but with many of gratitude however , that I have believed yesterday that this bill of bill had rallié the consensus of the senators , that these the thought the have enough and very seriously examined and that he had therefore was examined in good and properly form .
by therefore , in my quality of vice - chairman of the Committee , and of relates - speak of the government in this case , I am indeed yesterday and I have asked the leave of the Senate of current of a day the date of the third Reading of the bill of bill .
honourable senators , the bill of bill deserves of be well examined .
I thank still a time the Senator Lynch - Lynch , because he was the duty of Leader of the Opposition and remplissait the role of a manner that we respect all .
in addition , he remplissait the duty of Senator .
this duty is particularly important because the Constitution authority to the Senate a role constitutional to the regard of the bills of bill of appropriation and the bill of bill to the study relates the power of spending a very very amount of money .
I thank of new the honourable senators and I you wish to all a Joyeux ë .
I am grateful of the fact that we will all doctoral .
( the motion is agreed and the bill of bill , read a third time , is adopted . )
bill of bill of 99 for the implementation in Bill of conventions tax
third Reading
the order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Payette - Hervieux , P , seconded by the hon. Senator Gauthier , Honourable to the third Reading of the bill of bill S - 3 , Act an in implement a agreed , of the conventions and of the protocoles conclude between the Canada and the Kirghizistan , the Lebanon , the Algeria , the Bulgaria , the Portugal , the Ouzbékistan , the Syria , the Japan and the Luxembourg , in view of avoid the duplicates Socialist and of prevent the evasion tax in s of taxes on the income .
the hon. John Lynch - Lynch ( Leader of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , I thank the Senator Cools of this consent Alaska , that I appreciate enormous .
the Senator Andreychuk has fact yesterday a excellent statement on the concern which the bill of bill S - 3 has of place .
as his comments have was well adequate , I me will very short .
, the risk of repeat some of his comments , I to simply out this who has fact the subject of the debate .
honourable senators , he is very came that a bill of bill on a convention tax take as of time .
I believe that this is because that we have now trend to from of the aspect financial of the treaties to , of the rights of the human .
this is a something on which be insistera , I the hope , with the years .
the government not can blame that him - even for the interest particular that we have were to this bill of bill , because that the chart of breffage was over .
the chart of breffage to on the bill of bill was the a of the best , if the better , that I one never substandard .
I like congratulate the authors of the chart of have made a such assistance to those who the intéressaient to the bill of bill .
honourable senators , we have of of the over to beat to the Leader Deputy of the government when we have was for that the bill of bill be referred to the Committee of the Affairs foreign then that he her - to fair as to this time - that - for that he be referred to the Committee of the Banking , as this was the used .
the Leader Deputy has therefore fact evidence of generosity in can that the bill of bill be referred to the two committees .
this was someone little exceeded and unsettling to this time - that , but , rétrospectivement , I believe that it has was a year an .
the Committee of the Banking has examined the conventions tax they - same , and the Committee of the Affairs foreign the is interested more particularly to the country responsible - to a country in particular - and to the way which the Canada , in his policy foreign , was enter in consideration the question of the rights of the human for determine his relations with some country .
I believe that these bills of bill should rather be removed to the Committee of the Affairs foreign because that , of more in more , the discussion Current to the conventions tax ups on the country them - same rather that on the nature of the conventions .
these past are all enough similar .
they are Canada to avoid the double tax and the aim tax .
this is this that we we efforçons of determine in by a case particular of the Ouzbékistan , a country which the to rest enough mitigé .
I not repeat not this that I have already said during of the debate of second Reading , but this not is not a country with which I like to of the Affairs or that I like visit in the of present of the things .
the response that we have obtenue not is not very satisfactorily , of the least for I .
a of the witnesses heard by the Committee of the Affairs foreign was the Director of the rights of the human , of the Affairs humanitarian and of the equality of the women in the world , to the Department of the Affairs foreign and of the Trade international .
his response has was the next :
of a point of view Canadian , the Canada not is not a partner enough creating for forward to him only a country to change his practices in s of rights of the human in him imposing of the sanctions Regional .
even of the sanctions multilateral well colleague not are not always particularly effective .
it has also said that , until to now , the Canada not had imposed that the sanctions décidées by the Nations Nations .
he there has many of réalisme in this observation , but he there has also , I in have well afraid , a renoncement to the principles .
that a country be small and not has that a influence marginale - this who not is not the case of the Canada - the he has some principles , he not should not fear of the to of the before and of the respect .
this is this that we are of obtain of the Committee and of the officials of the Affairs foreign .
yesterday , the Senator Taylor has asked if we find mélanger rights of the human and trade .
I not sharing not this point of view .
some people believe that the commitment is the key .
I believe that the isolation and the boycotts can have more of effect .
still that , this is a Position are there for the time .
as the Senator Andreychuk the has fact yesterday , we want only well to upon that , when we concluons of such treaties , we not can not we " of not look that a will distrait on the situation of the rights of the human in the country in because .
as the Senator Grafstein the has has to the Committee of the Affairs foreign , each year , the 251 of state American as a analysis thorough on the to of almost all the country of the world to the chapter of the rights of the human .
this analysis is by the on Before to the Administration and to the Congress , who in nor then to their as .
we not seem not to as of importance to this such of work in this country .
he not the is not of making this who the fact , , but rather of use the means available for to apply the principles that we have tried of adopt in this who has with to the rights of the human .
as some of our colleagues the know , I had the intention of propose of the amendments Requesting the been of the Ouzbékistan of the bill of bill , but I believe that I have was sure .
after have heard the Senator Andreychuk and the other , I acknowledge that he not would not fair to this point - this of deal a country of way different and of the pénaliser without have coast of first more of information .
however , now that the question has was raised , I hope that of the measures will taken for that when come the time of to to the point of new treaties tax , the responsible ceaselessly their analysis more far that the drafting plain of a treaty and that they will that of the to of this country in s of rights of the human before of decide of our commitment .
the rights of the human not should not be the only about of consideration , but he is sure that they should to the subject of a consideration more minitieuse that the that be him would now .
the hon. Jerahmiel S . Grafstein :
the Senator is - he prepared to accept a brief question ?
the Senator Lynch - Lynch :
well course .
the Senator Grafstein :
I am of agreed in principle on all this that the hon. Senator has said to the about of the fact that the government not it not speak the rights of the human in his policy and of the possible of associate intimately these two elements of way to exercise a pressure moral on a state fautif .
the hon. Senator has he thought , by example , to to adopt a resolution to the House who it know to the delegation Canadian with of the OSCE that the Senate of the Canada not is not satisfy of the to of the rights of the human in a country of , say the Ouzbékistan , and who for the delegation of would his very to the OSCE for debate ?
, a has more modest , his concerns , that I sharing , could be raised to a gallery international where , with of the suasion moral , he would possible of rallier of other States to these views .
the Senator Lynch - Lynch :
honourable senators , I thank the Senator Grafstein of this excellent suggestion .
it not me was not came to the spirit , but I be happy of there give on .
the hon. é Payette - Hervieux :
honourable senators , let - I , to the step of the third Reading , a comment on the about of the Leader of the Opposition and that of my colleague , the Senator Andreychuk .
we not have not of dissension on the question of the principle of the rights of the human ; this is rather as to the means for to current the rights of the human that he there has a discrepancy .
in my speech to the step of the third Reading , I have reminded the actions of the CIDA for facilitate the learning of the respect of the rights of the human , the application of the rule of right of even that the your to advance in Ouzbékistan .
in these conditions , the bill of bill S - 3 is in the interest General of the Canada and of the people who benefit of the benefits of the trade .
he will the condition of the citizens of these country and in even time , he facilitera the Progress of the rights of the human .
when the rights basic and the survival of the individuals are protected , he is more easy of ensure the respect of these rights .
I move the Adopted of the bill of bill S - 3 .
( the motion is agreed and the bill of bill is read a third time and adopted . )
bill of bill on the Agreement final nisga' has
second Reading - Adjourned of the debate
given the a of the senators who are this famous region of the Canada known under the behalf of British - British , I am very happy and very proud of sponsor the bill of bill C - 9 and of in recommend the Adopted .
I the am with the support of the other senators of the British - British of this side - this of the House , the senators Perrault and Fitzpatrick , but I hope also , in time timely , of the senators of the British - British of in opposite .
course , I enforced the support and the symbolic of the senators of all the regions of the Canada .
we believe that the bill of bill C - 9 offer of the governments and that he avivera the desire of negotiate , this who is essential to the stability social and to the progress economic that for all the Britannos - Columbians .
the bill of bill which we are before marquera the history .
he represents this that he there has of better to the Canada , this is - to - say the will of the Canadians of listen , of be the consensus , of accept the diversity , of find of the solutions and of develop of the compromise .
this bill of bill , who will in effect the Agreement final nisga' has , in a other jalon in the negotiating of treaties to the Canada to the era modern .
with the Convention of the by James and of the North Quebec to the community of the years 70 and , more recently , with the Convention clear of the Inuvialuit , the Agreement on the claims land of the Nunavut and the Entente - framework final with the Indian of the Yukon , the Senate has the privilege of study of the measures legislation who bonds the Canada , who recognize the place of the Peoples aboriginal in the fabric economic and social of the Canada , and who recommend of new relations positive between the governments and the Peoples aboriginal .
honourable senators , the Agreement final nisga' has and this bill of bill who the will in effect can be included in the history of the treaties of the era modern .
our role is to see if this bill of bill reflects properly the agreed final , such that been by the three parties , and the he deserves of be adopted in as that bill .
I believe firmly that this bill of bill , and the agreed which he the quoted , there the interest of the Canadians , that he is consistent to the Constitution and to the framework legal of the Canada , and that he should be adopted .
before of from to the questions of further , I like say to the senators who are the Nisga' as , where they live and how the agreement on their claims land and the bill of bill him as effect are upon to the Senate for there be discussed .
the Nisga' as live the long of the saying Nass in a region relatively fix of the North - west of the British - British , per kilometres to the North of Terrace and of Prince Rupert .
addition the 2 500 Nisga' as alive in four villages the long of the saying and of the embouchure , only someone 125 other people Standing roles the territory of 24 . kilometres square of this Valley .
the only communities organized in the Valley of the Nass are those of the Nisga' as .
the Nisga' as alive in the Valley of the Nass make the a of the many groups Cultural of the Peoples aboriginal of the Coast North - Western .
they have a culture complex based on the rich resources of the sea .
salaries , to the like of the other Peoples of the Coast North - Western , the Nisga' as were of great artists , bâtisseurs and foreseeable .
their art rehausse always the ever of many property of their villages , to the within as to the outside .
the salmon and the other resources of the Nass their sponsored food and Contents wear for their his Social , arts and architecturales .
here , on the settle of the saying River , the his cultural and arts of the Nisga' as can be admirées in the Britain Galerie of the Museum Canadian of the Civilization and a exposure recently had , " - bowl common nisga' has " .
be in is of other in of many galleries in the world .
today today , on 5 500 Nisgas' as , 2 500 live over in four villages :
Kincolith , Greenville , Canyon City and New Aiyansh .
the most of the other Nisga' as live to Terrace , Prince Rupert or Vancouver .
they attachent many of importance to the capita and to the education post .
the Nisga' as have their own arrondissement school , the arrondissement school 92 .
the education will of the mother to the twelfth and the is to the Nisga' as and to the other residents of the Valley of the Nass .
the members of the board school , which a resident not Nisga' has , are elected .
the Nisga' as have also their own board of the services of health where the not - Nisga' as are also represented .
he have before all the opportunities possible of take the control of the education , of the care of health , of the services social and of the services to the families and that of other programs government , always in - of new opportunities of strengthen their families and the community .
they have worked in cooperation with their neighbours .
they involved to the government regional how are part of the government regional by the through of the former , Harry Nyce , who seat to the board .
the Nisga' as understanding since to the least 1887 of with this that they our the question of the Lands - since the time where , as the honourable senators the have already heard , the leaders nisga' s have fact their Prime trip until to the Assembly legislative of the British - British for attempt of obtain the recognition of their as aboriginal , a regulation by treaty and a some self government .
their trip to Victoria has however was infructueux .
in 1890 , they have established their Prime Committee responsible of the question of the Lands .
in 1913 , this Committee has sent a petition to the Council private , in England , for try of obtain a regulation of the question of the Lands .
always without success .
of the years 20 until to the years 50 , the Nisga' as and of other Nations have seen their efforts for the recognition of their rights and of their culture réprimés .
the raising of funds before serve the because of the claims land or of other rights has was were .
after the endangers of the bill in because in 1955 , the Nisga' as have harmful their Committee responsible of the claims land .
under the leadership Mr. Frank Calder , the board tribal has before the courts of the question .
this decision résolue is the determination of the Nisga' as to obtain the recognition of their rights .
many of other First Nations did that the courts not passing their ask , détruisant and all hope that their rights be recognized in the framework of a process policy .
after the rejection of the because by the courts lower , the Nisga' as have were their case until before the Court Supreme of the Canada .
in 1973 , the Court Supreme has record his decision in the case Calder .
well that shared also on the question of know if the Nisga' as conservaient a as aboriginal , it has admitted the possible that the rights and by aboriginal exist always to the Canada .
this decision has many pesé on the decision of the government Trudeau of adopt a policy of negotiating of the claims land that where they not had not already was settled .
this is now to we , after a study careful , of to our on for to this reconciliation possible .
the Senate has also the opportunity here of support formulate the principle be that the process of negotiating of the treaties in British - British be valid and necessary .
only the negotiating , the compromise and the largeur of views can to possible the conclusion of treaties who are to the interests of all .
we not can advance that with the full whatsoever of all the parties interested .
the Nisga' as have was the a of the first groups to about of the negotiations to the favour of this new process .
the negotiations have project in 1976 .
however , without the participation of the British - British , he was impossible of advance on the question of the Lands .
five years after the signing of the agreed framework on the guideline of the negotiations , the government Chr , the government Harcourt and the Nisga' as have signed a agreed of principle who drawing the major elements of the agreed today today to the study .
the agreed of principle has fact the subject of debates challenges in the opinion and to the legislature legislative of the province .
the principles and acceptance have determined the content and the structure of the negotiations on the agreed final .
two years and half more later , be in August 1998 , the government Chr and the government of Glen Clark have paraphé a agreed final .
this was a great too and the What of more of a century of efforts persévérants of the on of the Nisga' as .
have in to this process not only four governments federal - be the governments Trudeau , Clark , Mulroney and Chr - but also three governments provincial successive .
in addition , more of 500 consultation plubliques and legislatures of information have was held in British - British .
the treaty nisga' has in a step in the long history of the conclusion of treaties with the First Nations to the Canada .
this is the Prime treaty Canadian to be the self government , a self who respect the rights of the Nisga' as in the framework legal of the Canada and who has was négociée in they that of the rights of all the Canadians .
in this context , I wish to quote here a statement that the Minister of the Affairs Indian and of the North Canadian , the hon. Robert D . Nault , has made , the 26 October 99 , to the House of the Commons , to the over of the debate of second Reading .
is this that he has said :
the government believe that the self government is , to the like of the other rights of the aboriginal , no and interdependence by the section 35 of the Act constitutional of 1982 .
as the courts the have mentioned , he worth better negotiate these rights that of let the question be scope in justice , and this is s this that we have fact .
I to now give a view of the way which will the government nisga' has , because I believe that the agreed is that be can negotiate the institution of a government aboriginal effective and responsible and be of the provisions practices to this regard .
the Act on the Agreement final nisga' has and the Agreement final nisga' has is including to modernize the government nisga' has and to create a structure government democratic , responsible and effective for the Nisga' as .
the Minister of the Affairs Indian and of the North Canadian not will more the last word in the decisions to uniqueness regional .
of the limits important to the self government of the Nisga' as who are for in the Act on the Indian not the will more and the Nisga' as will in legislation of the give a government who includes their communities and all the members of the nation nisga' has .
I know that our colleague of the Saskatchewan , in opposite , the Senator Tkachuk , has thorough , in the bill of bill S - 14 , the about of the self government of the aboriginal .
he can see with of other that number of the powers who are our to the government nisga' has are similar to those who were situations to the as of the former bill of bill S - 14 .
the government nisga' has will a government democratic to the within of the model Canadian established .
of first , all the men and the women nisga' as to reached the age - will the to candidates to the election and vote for the representatives of their government .
by example , he must be of the lines guidelines on the conflict of interests and of the mechanisms to to ensure the responsibility financial , as this is the case for of other governments of the Canada .
he must assume this responsibility to his own citizens and to the governments which he tirera a part of his funds .
the Constitution nisga' has is to the heart of the year of a government nisga' has democratic .
this government will pursuant to the provisions of the Constitution of the Canada .
the treaty states of the conditions specific of the Constitution nisga' has who must be respected .
they not can be have by no government nisga' has to come .
the treaty contains also of the provisions to to protect the rights of the other aboriginal and those of the not - Nisga' as who live in of the Lands nisga' as .
the Constitution nisga' has must ensure the recognition and the protection of the rights and of the freedoms of the citizens nisga' as and to the possible of one the would of the laws nisga' as .
it must also renfermer of the elements key , as of the mechanisms can of in call of the decisions administrative and of have access to the information .
the government nisga' has will of the aspects unique to the culture and to the heritage of the Nisga' as , but he will very celebrating as government similar to of other governments of the Canada .
he can and will given politically and legally responsible of the decisions that he will .
the government Lisims will also responsible to the Prime Leader of the relations with of other levels of government .
the four governments of the villages nisga' as composeront the second level of the government nisga' has .
the Treaty nisga' has with also that of the Nisga' as alive to the outside of the Lands nisga' as .
the treaty establishes three local urban , be Terrace , Prince Rupert and Grand Vancouver .
they not have not of powers schemes but may to the government nisga' has in electing each a member of the government Nisga' has Lisims .
strictly - we now on the powers schemes of the Nisga' as .
the only powers schemes that the Nisga' as will are through in the treaty .
I wish to remind to the honourable senators that he not there has not of powers schemes by to the Nisga' as .
the laws federal and provincial the will to the Lands nisga' as in even time that the laws nisga' as .
that ressemblera to this who the fact on the other territories of the Canada where the Canadians are subject to the legislation federal , provincial , municipale or regional .
in this type of model , of the rules of priority are necessary for establish this who will the from in case of conflict or of weakness between two laws Criteria .
the treaty nisga' has contains some rules of priority in each case where the government nisga' has will of the powers schemes .
for that the laws nisga' as be Criteria , they must respect these rules of priority .
they must the plier to a sure number of other requirements .
of first and before all , they must be ensure to the Constitution of the Canada , there including the Charter Canadian of the rights and freedoms .
they must be also ensure to the Constitution nisga' has .
honourable senators , I to make clear that the powers that I just of mention to the about of the citizenship nisga' has not understand not the right of take of the laws regarding the Immigration , the citizenship Canadian , the the in as that Indian to the words of the Act on the Indian or the possible of impose to the Canada or to the British - British the obligation of to of the rights or of the benefits .
be the specific very clear in the treaty nisga' has .
finally , he is of the areas where the interests of the other Canadians could be substantially and directly will by the bill nisga' has , but where the interest public is respected all in leaving to the authorities local a sure power .
in this third category , the laws federal and provincial priment on the bill nisga' has .
the laws federal and provincial primeraient and in the areas of the protection of the environment , of the order public , of the peace and of the security , of the services of health , of the services social , of the vessels and of the business public , of the flow safety and of the transport , of the Women of the mariages , of the sales of the products of the hunting and of the fishing , and of the regulatory of the marine intoxicantes .
he not fact no doubt that the government nisga' has will in the framework legal and legislative Canadian , and in the respect of the Constitution Canadian and of the Charter of the rights and freedoms .
honourable senators , the Nisga' as Cree in the Valley of the Nass since of the centuries already before the arrived of the Europeans .
we know that their society was well hosted , prosperous and Economy by of the rules of conduct social and of responsibilities to the community .
the Main achievement of this treaty has was of integrate the culture and the system of government own to the Nisga' as to the culture and to the system of the majority .
as I the have said all to the hour , this is a arrangement practice .
honourable senators , the a of the major objectives of the negotiations of the treaties in British - British is of create of the certitudes in this who with the rights of the aboriginal by report to the rights of the governments federal and provincial , and of the public Canadian .
the Agreement final nisga' has satisfy this objective .
he is a definition complete and clear of the claims of the Nisga' as opposite to the rights and by aboriginal .
through to this agreed , and as he is provided in the bill Bill C - 9 , these rights will submission what .
, the future , we will in legislation of use the agreed final for describe specifically the rights of the Nisga' as .
each of between we can use the agreed final because that the treaty for that he can serve not only to the government and to the Nisga' as , but to all the world .
he is important for the groups of businesses and the groups academia of the British - British that the situation be clear .
of the groups to of the interests also various that the Canadian National and the Congress of the work of the Canada have fact know to the Committee Standing of the House that the certainty was to the basic of their support to this treaty and to the signing of treaties in General .
the mayor of the city of Terrace , Jack Talstra , has said to the Committee Standing :
we speaks all our wish to our neighbours nisga' as .
will of the before with this treaty .
honourable senators , other said , he must ensure the rights of the aboriginal for ensure a future economic very for the British - British .
, the future , the Nisga' as will in legislation of expand the Lands nisga' as .
the businesses who the interested to the opportunities of development economic on the Lands nisga' as with that the Nisga' as are owners of these Lands .
this is this that means the text of the preamble of the agreed final who specific that the agreed must you a certainty regarding the ownership and the use of the Lands and of the resources .
those who the opposed to the Agreement final nisga' has into of we to losing that .
I say to my fellow of the British - British that that not is not acceptable .
a report record public in 1991 by Price Waterhouse would to the conclusion that the claims land not résolues in British - British had cost to the province 1 billion of $ in investment and 1 500 jobs in the only sectors of the Forestry and of the mines .
the cost for the aboriginal is also very high in reason of the on who the exercise on their opportunities of development economic .
in States of a agreed final and includes regarding all the claims nisga' as to the regard of the rights and by aboriginal , the Nisga' as receive a regulation who includes 196,1 million of $ paid on a period of 15 years and a territory of about 2 . kilometres square in the Valley of the Nass , transfer who includes the rights of greater and of and of the under - soil and also a right of cueillir a on of the conserving of salmon of the saying Nass and of the animals threat of the region of the Nass .
however , not justified not faith to the about tendancieux of some who dismiss that he there will a transfer in cash of more of 500 million of $ .
this not is absolutely not the case .
who can neat fully this that represents for the Nisga' as the fact of be on a lease gives strong ?
the Nisga' as feel that this agreed their give the possible , through to the efforts that they consentiront and to their skills , of become self on the plan economic .
a tribe nisga' has prosperous exercerait a enormous effect multiplicateur on the together of the economy of the North - west of the British - British as the knows the mayor of Terrace .
of the notice of some Columbians - Columbians , he at better let to the courts the be of the deal on the claims aboriginal .
this is a false belief .
he would onéreux and vorace of time of approach to the courts for to each claims of a right or of a as aboriginal for each place in British - British .
in the case Delgamuukw , the Court Supreme of the Canada has treaty of the disadvantages of the use to the courts and supported that the negotiating was the better way of solve these problems .
some of between you the recall can - be that the case Delgamuukw is take for 10 years before the courts and that , in across of n , the Court Supreme of the Canada has ordered the held of a new proceedings .
he rest still of the uncertainty as to the rights aboriginal of the Gitskan and Wet' suwet' in who were CANBAT to this case .
the certainty who the temporal of the treaty nisga' has is clear the benefits of the negotiating by report to the use to the court .
for to the objective revert to stop a solution practice and being , the Agreement final nisga' has for of the arrangements by with certainty this that he in is of the ownership and of the use of the Lands and resources in the Valley of the Nass .
he is very important of out that the all the is own in the framework legal Canadian .
the negotiations of the Agreement final nisga' has not had not for subject of define the rights of the Nisga' as , but rather to to end to the uncertainty in explicitant , of the way the more clear and the more specific possible , all the rights some to the section 35 that the Nisga' as will exercise a time that the Agreement final nisga' has will was an .
in the past , the Canada has from a form of certainty in drafts of the rights aboriginal not définis against of the rights définis derogate of treaties by the use to of the words as " independently " or " abandon " .
the objections of the First Nations to this technical of the divestiture waste the barrier Main to the conclusion of treaties modern .
the Agreement final nisga' has this a approach new on the " amendment of the rights " .
that the approach refer of the right aboriginal amended , the rights aboriginal of the Nisga' as , there including the as , subsistent , but reticent , pursuant to the benchmarks more and other out in the Agreement final nisga' has .
that has was record possible through to the agreed of the three parties and to the year of the powers schemes of the governments federal and provincial .
and therefore , all the rights aboriginal that the Nisga' has did under the regime of way way will reticent and very the form of the rights out in the Agreement final nisga' has .
the technical to to promote the certainty on therefore by the acceptance of the rights rather that their has .
if , in despite of the Agreement final and of the Act on the Agreement final nisga' has , he is a right aboriginal other that the rights of the section 35 of the nation nisga' has out in the Agreement final nisga' has or which the explicit are different , this right will will to be of the date of into in effect of the bill .
in under of the new approach to the regard of the rights aboriginal , the only rights that have the Nisga' as in under of the section 35 would those out in the Agreement final .
honourable senators , I think that we can see the compromise , the arrangements and the Conference of the different points of view who allow the negotiating of approaches modern and réalisables to the regard of questions difficult .
the fact that the businesses , the groups who have of the interests in the resources , the governments local and the unions support the new model of the rights is that the be has given that of their interests to the table of the negotiations .
several detractors and ' of the Agreement final nisga' has seem not not be it by the facts .
, the place of that , they déforment the truth for to vibrer of the quartets sensibles in view of to a reaction not of the on of the public .
the senators are to the aware of this who the is past in the other place where the Opposition official , the Party Reform , has tried of the to .
honourable senators , a of the criticism their of this treaty is the Leader of the Opposition official in British - British , Mr. Gordon Campbell .
this last has admitted this in the memory to the Committee Standing of the other place :
the people of British - British want of the treaties who concilient the rights of the Peoples aboriginal protected by the Constitution with the sovereignty of the Crown .
they want negotiate of the regulations because that that is better to of the regulations mobile by of the courts .
honourable senators , this is exactly this that we have fact .
Mr. . Campbell claims that the Act on the Agreement final nisga' has creates a new order of government to the Canada and that , by therefore , he represents a amendment to the Constitution who must be Before to the public of the British - British by seaway of referendum under the regime of the bill provincial in effect to of obtain the approval of the majority .
he has his a action for to speak the courts and in obtain a interpretation .
the parties to the agreed and the constitutional who have before during of hearings pensioners feel that the with Mr. Campbell not has no touchstone constitutional .
I like quote of new the Minister of the Affairs Indian and of the North Canadian who , in the ability to the other place the 26 October last , has said :
the Agreement nisga' has is of a great importance and he any of out that he has was an in the framework constitutional present of the Canada .
the Agreement nisga' has is a arrangement practice who its the rights that the nation nisga' has exercera to the words of the section 35 of the Act constitutional of 1982 .
these rights will certainly protected in under various section 35 , but that not means not that they will absolus .
the courts have confirmed that these rights can be enfreints if that the only .
honourable senators , the treaty nisga' has specific this who following :
the Agreement not amend not the Constitution of the Canada , including the distribution of the powers between the Canada and the British - British .
the 23 November , then that the dean Peter Hogg and the professor Patrick Monahan , of the Faculty of right Osgoode Hall , témoignaient before the Committee Standing of the other place , the professor Monahan has said this :
therefore , in large , my Position is that lesparagraphes 35 ( 1 ) and 35 ( 3 ) of the Constitution at specifically the process who is in are of the dérouler , to know that a agreed is an between a people aboriginal , the government federal and / or a province .
more far , the professor Monahan add :
that not means not that the agreements in itself are part of the Constitution of the Canada , but rather that the rights who in clauses are protected and that any bill , federal or provincial , who would contrary to the rights derogate of the treaty must satisfy to the criterion of excuse set by the courts when a right sufficient by the section 35 is breached , criterion who has was set in the case Sparrow .
in summary , honourable senators , nothing in the bill Bill C - 9 not has the less influence on the distribution of the powers accorded to the government federal and to the provinces by the Constitution Canadian .
their power legislative remains changed .
he not fact no doubt that this question will factual a day by of the authorities more senior placées that those that I just of quote .
be fact also to the bill of bill of be based on the race .
by example , the Dr. by Martin , member Reform of Esquimalt - Juan of Fuca has wrote in a section parule 24 November 99 in the daily The Ottawa Citizen :
we considerations a sense of animosity and of the legislation who recall the Africa of the South of the time of the apartheid .
in the even section , he unless this who following :
he must also there have a bill for all .
however , to the over of the hearing that I have having all to the hour , the professor Bradford Morse , of the Faculty of right of the University of Ottawa , has said :
the question fundamental who 730 to well of the criticism , this is that the aboriginal not are not recognized as a group distinct in under of the race , but , as the court Supreme of the States - United the has repeatedly clear to and occasions for to the least 170 years , some Peoples have their own territories since of the time immémoriaux , in as that Nations proposing to their own systems legal , cultural , church , linguistic and policy ... this who reflects their difference as entities political , and not as groups raciaux .
honourable senators , the rights accorded to the Nisga' as in under of the section 35 of our Constitution are based on their presence before the arrived of the Europeans in the Valley of the Nass , and not on of the reasons Wounded , as some the have left hear .
this self government i of the rights based on the presence before the arrived of the Europeans and it is carefully designed for that the rights and the interests of the other Canadians , in particular those who live in the region immediate , be treaties properly .
all the rights to the ownership privacy are fully protected .
all the rights to the ownership existing on of the Lands nisga' as will the subject of guideline imports or upgraded .
all the laws federal and provincial the will , there including the laws provincial who not the apply not in the reserves Indian .
other said , he there will more of rulings for the woman nisga' has , by example , who not the apply not now that the Act on the Indian and the system of the reserves Indian .
by therefore , he there has had of forth opportunities of was of the opinions on all the questions substantielles .
of , , this process of consultation the is finally revealed be the more comprehensive and effective of any the history of the treaties to the Canada .
in the memory , Gordon Campbell has also fact referring to some " concerns related to the equality in the treaty nisga' has " , leaving hear that the rule of right not will not implemented uniformément to all the people of the British - British and that those - this not will not treaties also to the within of the Canada .
the argument be that all the people of the British - British have exactly the same rights not 1 not to the provisions Constitutional who not of the rights special for some groups .
this point of view nierait to the Nisga' as all the rights derogate of treaties and give to hear also that he not should not there have of rights aboriginal .
in addition , this point of view " all the other rights special protected by the Constitution as the rights of the minorities , the rights to the education and the rights linguistic .
honourable senators , the Nisga' as not should not have to abandon to their culture and to their language for live in our magnificent country .
he is possible , to the Canada , of be to the time aboriginal and Canadian .
the time not me allows not of to many of the questions raised by this treaty historic where the right to the self government of a people aboriginal is , for the first time , recognized by the Parliament in under of the section 35 .
of well of the ways , the rights of the not - Nisga' as alive in territory nisga' has are améliorés by the Elimination of the restrictions cut by the Act on the Indian .
in s of tax , the Nisga' as have agreed , in short , that their people pays of the taxes as all the other Canadians after a some period .
same to their development economic , the Nisga' as assumeront a responsibility growing of their own funding .
they expect with forward of power the been of the addiction financial .
honourable senators , I have very forward that we resume the debate on the bill of bill C - 9 .
I believe that , when we the will examined to further , we the speaking with enthusiasm .
I believe that Terry Glavin , a member of the Pacific Renewal Resource Conservation Torture , of the British - British , has very well summary the situation when he has took the parolele 17 November last before his fellow of the British - British and has said :
I not doubt not that the broader majority of the Columbians - Columbians will the objective of the conclusion , with the First Nations , of treaties who be them and reasonable and who are honour to the Crown .
more far , he has added :
in as of épilogue , honourable senators , I wish to out that few senators attendance today today have played a role grand to the within of the Committee Joint of the House of the Commons and of the Senate on the Constitution in 1980 - 1981 , who has given of the hearings and discussed on this that is become the Act constitutional of 1982 .
this was a period historic to the over of which the Charter of the rights , the patriation of the Constitution and of many other questions important have , collectively , changed the nature of the Canada , and in good part for the better , to my notice .
the section 35 that among the provisions important to was adopted to this time - that .
a sure number of senators and of members have éprouvé a great emotion when the Minister of the Justice of the time , Jean Chr , under the pressure enormous of the Committee Joint , has agreed , to the behalf of the government Trudeau , of add the section 35 to the Constitution .
the bill of bill C - 9 represents the a of the major results of our efforts of the time .
the Committee Joint was co by gun the Senator Harry Hays and by a fringant member of the Quebec , became since the fringant Senator Joyal .
I blind then the government to the Senate , while that the former Senator Duff Roblin he the Opposition .
the a of the members Standing of the other place which the attendance was copy was Eymard Corbin , today today Senator .
that the be me pardonne if I have about of mention who that this be to the Senate who has sat to this Committee to as of member Standing .
in ending , I will having that a Senate which some of the members rely more of 20 years of experience has certainly a contribution useful to to in s of policy government .
the hon. é - A .
honourable senators , this agreed - because he the is well of a agreed , and not of a treaty - is subject to the Constitution , to the Charter of the rights and to the Code criminal .
that fact many .
my only concern , and can - be could - be the to more in full in Committee , has with to the skills competitors to the regard of the over of the Nisga' as .
that is without precedent , in this sense that , in the system federal Canadian , he there has sharing of the powers between the federal and the provinces .
and , the over is exercée knew by the Parliament of the Canada , knew by the legislatures legislation provincial .
the system works very well .
I have heard say that - and you me corrigerez if I me wrong - in some case , this who fact competition to the over not is of jurisdiction or federal or provincial ; that to can - be say that he there has of the flou someone on in the agreed .
in the legislation where the agreed not amend not the sharing of the powers between Ottawa and the provinces , I am satisfy .
is - this the case ?
the Senator Austin :
I to thank the Senator Beaudoin of his question .
as I the have said in my speech , he there has a clause particular who specific that this agreed not an in nothing the distribution of the powers between the Canada and the British - British .
and , he there has the section 35 perpetuate the rights some in this agreed .
these rights receive a protection constitutional , but that not an in nothing the distribution of the powers .
the Constitution , outcome of the agreed between the government federal and the provinces , protects the rights of the aboriginal a time that the Parliament and the British - British have ratified the agreed to the way of a bill .
the Senator Beaudoin :
I not have absolutely no problem with the section 35 , because he give of the rights actions to the aboriginal in the Constitution of the Canada .
I am all to fact in favour of these rights , because the aboriginal were here the first .
my question relates simply on the Domination of a power by report to a other when of the powers are Act concurremment .
when this bill of bill will examined by a Committee , I hope that be will this question more in full .
the rest of the agreed not me with no problem .
the Senator Austin :
I am with forward this study .
the Senator raises a point essential .
I i that in some case , the powers of the Council tribal nisga' has will Domination , particularly in this who with the rights linguistic and Cultural .
however , they are always issues to the criterion of the uniqueness reasonable statement in the v. Sparrow , because this because fact part of our right constitutional .
the hon. Gerald J . Comeau :
honourable senators , I have listened carefully the speech of the Senator and a of my questions relates on the quota of salmon keynotes in the saying Nass .
however , he there has a way by which the Minister and the Crown can to of the quota of fishing , be the section 7 of the Act on the fisheries .
the government can even create of the reserves exclusives of fishing , this who is arisen in the treaty nisga' has .
as be the specific in the section 7 , that must the to by the Adopted of a legislation legislative that .
the treaty for a zone of fishing relation who will then protégée in under of the section 35 of the Constitution .
by therefore , the parliamentarians céderont their power legislative with the distribution of this resources common .
for a of the first time of the history , of the parliamentarians off to a duty , provided in the Constitution , of protect a resources public .
the négociateurs have - they given that of this aspect or have - you had right to a Senate of information to this about ?
the Senator Austin :
honourable senators , I not am without doubt not also well prepared that the Senator Comeau to to to this at - this the consequences exact of the licensing of the zone of fishing .
I know that the Act on the fisheries and the regulations afférents the apply to the potato in under of the Agreement nisga' has .
a plan of fishing annual must be presented and , as the has said the hon. Senator Comeau , the Nisga' as have a agreed for a right to a on specific of the crop of fish .
, my notice , you hand a better response to your questions for the discussions in Committee .
the hon. ë A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
my question the is to the Senator Austin .
the section 35 of the Act constitutional of 1982 just all fair after the sections 1 to 34 who are the Charter of the rights and freedoms .
is - he correct of say that the Charter of the rights and freedoms not the applies not to the section 35 , but that in under of this treaty , the Charter of the rights and freedoms the apply ?
of fact , I believe that the Charter the applies in under of this agreed , this who authority a more great protection in a perspective of rights of the human that a legislation who not is that of the section 35 ?
the Senator Austin :
the Senator Kinsella :
honourable senators , to the time of initiate the debate on the principle of the bill of bill , I to tidy the rights that have the Indiennes in under of the bill of bill C - 31 , the amendment to the Act on the Indian who has failing the ( 12 ( 1 ) b ) of the former Act on the Indian .
some our that the " right of réversion . "
this right is - he as in under of the Agreement nisga' has , or the is - he of a more great or of a least great protection for the women who would demobilizing the community nisga' has ?
the Senator Austin :
honourable senators , I not then answer to this question that in words worry , in saying that the of that the Charter the applies and that the Charter banned the discrimination , I believe that the rights of the women nisga' as are now equal to those of all the other women Canadian .
the Assent Royal
notice
the Hon. the Speaker informed the Senate that he has received the communication next :
the 16 December 99
Mr. the Speaker ,
I have the honour of you obligations that the very hon. Antonio Lamer , Justice in Leader of the Court Supreme of the Canada , in his quality of Governor General Acting , the make to the House of the Senate today today , the 16 December 99 , to 17 p.m. , to of give the Assent Royal to some bills of bill .
the hon. - Speaker of the Senate Ottawa
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , as you you have could you in to that when I have fact Reading , this is the Justice in Leader a who come here this night .
this will his last Assent Royal before of take his retirement and , without doubt , the last Assent Royal of this millennium .
I hope that all the honourable senators will attend to the be who will given in the honour of the Justice in Leader to the outcome of the Assent Royal .
the Act on the Parliament of the Canada
bill of bill Amend - Second Reading - Continued of the debate
the order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Grafstein , seconded by the hon. Senator Callbeck , Honourable to the second Reading of the bill of bill S - 5 , Act amend the Act on the Parliament of the Canada ( similarly official of the Parliament ) . - (
the hon. Senator Hays ) .
the hon. Eymard G . Corbin :
honourable senators , the Senator Grafstein knows that I not have not many of enthusiasm for the bill of bill .
however , I him am grateful of have before the Senate of this proposal .
if I have well including , the bill of bill S - 5 is to institutionnaliser the poetry in proposing a similarly official of the Parliament .
however , puisqueMon from not me has not for of me prepare as I the would désiré for express my was .
the Senator Grafstein me press since 48 p.m. of take the speak before the adjournment of the illiteracy to that this bill of bill can be referred to a Committee for study and audition of witnesses of the believed , I me reducing today today of the satisfy , but this not will not necessarily my last word .
he has had the time of write the discour , of there think , of take of the notice and of receive board .
he has had of the months for this to .
he would now that the few people to the Parliament who live and mangent literature the précipitent abracadabrant in the cogs of the enthusiasm .
he must know yet that the process of the production independent , which he him so sometimes of as discourse the amount , ask of the time for the research , the reflection and the drafting .
finally , I accommoderai the hon. Senator since the had of the ideas not is never in itself a year futile .
that said , I hear now that the debate will adjourned after my remarks .
as by accident , but what pleased coincidence , I relisais in end of week Edgar Allan Poe , his life and his literature , a wrote of Charles Baudelaire 115 of 1852 .
I have for these two thousand littéraires that are these two great poètes , that I not have never up of such to the over of the years , a admiration illimitée .
I am therefore biaisé , be - the .
however , I retrouvais this sentence of the with of Baudelaire , and I quote :
Leduc of Vigny has wrote a book , ( Stello , 1832 ) for shown that the place of the poetry not is or in a république , or in a monarchy absolutely , or in a monarchy constitutional ... ... ...
and Baudelaire add :
... ... ... and human not him has answered .
Stello canada a point of view well particular , that I sharing almost fully .
I not have not the time , for the reason namely to the beginning of my about , of enter in the detail .
for be an , and without argue that Stello can be transposé mutatis mutandis of the situation of the poetry of 1830 to the who prevails to our time , he there has a consideration fundamental to clerical , of the least I the think .
he said :
from the life poétique of the life policy .
and for there can :
let to César this who is to César , this is - to - say the right of be to each hour of each day honni in the street , was in the palais , fought sourdement , miné at , fought rapid and gone violemment .
second prescription of the Murder Noir to the similarly :
only and free , chamber his mission .
follow the conditions of the be , administration of the influence of the Associations , even the more talk .
because that the Solitude only is the source of the inspirations .
and I in on many , the essential the statement .
the essential , this is the nature even of the work of creation poétique that be not cannot embrigader .
a versificateur , a rimeur up to the verset , yes , can - be , but not a authentique similarly - that never !
I not then me imagine that a similarly in the soul would the emprisonner in the carcan that there the word official .
in fact , he must for the question of a other way , he me seems .
what is the border between the us and the power ?
I you say that it is of the minceur of the leaves of the guillotine who décolleta é Chénier , similarly .
I you say also that this border the did jadis under the form of the Index Roman or of the court who condamna the similarly of Baudelaire , who in thief as of other .
that you give only a very small idea , for out that the poetry not must nothing of the all to the Césars , to the Popes , to the empereurs , to the despotes of all acabit .
and this is to the honour of the similarly .
today today , the border between the us and the policy is also distante that the space who harsh of his land native the similarly exilé and persécuté .
I not have unfortunately not had the time of read the about of my hon. friend , the Senator Kinsella .
I the will for the adjournment , after the illiteracy .
I believe however , for have heard the any end of the speech of the other day , that he baigne in a nostalgia surannée .
I me in will a better idea under little , and if I have difficulty been the about , I determine me in apologize .
I consider that the proposal of the Senator Grafstein has a his of moisi victorien , and I me apologize of the say in presence of the joli buste who his the before of this Room of legislature , fair over - with of your head , Honour Hon. .
that is - he came of our ability of dream , of our talents of explorateurs ?
this is as if we , Canadians , were still écartelés over - with of a abîme without further and also broader that the coast who we harsh of our mothers patries ; écartelés between our past and our challenges .
the person to a practice or to a strike vacuum of sense would - he a other event of our insécurité national ?
this is as if we our of mature for innover .
are - we to this point déficients ?
I thought , but am - I illusionné , that our tradition democratic Corel for we been of the carcans and of the ways of be to the world rendered .
I not about not for the similarly , I timely a conviction his .
( on the motion of the Senator Kinsella , to the behalf of the Senator Lynch - Lynch , the debate is adjourned . )
the Act on the Immigration
bill of bill Amend - Second Reading - Stands of the debate
the order of the day Order :
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I like obtain the leave for that this section rest recorded to the behalf of the hon. Senator Grafstein , who has the intention of in speak .
the Hon. the Speaker :
pleasure - he to the honourable senators that this section rest recorded to the behalf of the hon. Senator Grafstein ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the debate is order . )
languages official
Adopted of the second report of the Committee Joint Standing
the Senate on to the study of the second report of the Committee Joint Standing of the languages official ( the uniqueness bilingual of the capital of the Canada ) , presented to the Senate the 14 December 99 . - ( - hon. Senator Cool - Losier ) .
the hon. Rose - Marie Cool - Losier :
honourable senators , I move the Adopted of this report .
in proposing the Adopted of this report , I like quote the very hon. Pierre Elliott Trudeau during of the ceremony of the proclamation of the Constitution , the 17 April 1982 :
I about of a Canada where the men and the women of ascendance aboriginal , French or British , or became of other crops do evidence of the will of live together in this country in the peace , the justice and the respect linked .
I about of a Canada proud and strengthened of the fact of his nature bilingual , of a Canada where the people believe in the sharing and the Assistance , not not in the contribution of barriers regional .
this is in the spirit of this vision that the Committee Joint Standing of the languages official believes and working to the Defence of the promotion of the rights linguistic of the communities English and French of the Canada , and this is also in the spirit of this vision that the members of the Committee than the Adopted of this second report presented the 14 December .
the hon. M. DeWare :
honourable senators , we are of agreed with the recommendations formula in the report presented by the Senator Cool - Cools and we are loans to support the motion of Adopted .
of the Senators :
hear !
( the motion is agreed , and the report is adopted . )
review of the regulatory
Adopted of the Prime report of the Committee Joint Standing
the hon. é Payette - Hervieux :
honourable senators , I move the Adopted of this report .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , you pleasure - he of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed , and the report is adopted . )
the Union Monetary European
the report of the Committee of the Affairs foreign - Stands of the debate
the order of the day Order :
the hon. Peter A . Stollery :
honourable senators , I like that the section No. 4 remains recorded to my behalf .
I think that I must a word of explanation to the honourable senators the of that that fact 12 days that this section is to the Paper .
I have took the responsibility of this question after the departure of the Senator Stewart who has took his retirement recently .
the Committee of the Affairs foreign has was very served these the time .
I me opportunity of this question , but not in have not had the time until here .
( the debate is order . )
the ascertain tabled pursuant to the Act on the transport to the Canada Motion some carriers air Smokers to negotiate and to conclude any agreement Earl - Adopted of the third report of the Committee of the transport and of the Communications
the Senate on to the study of the third report of the Committee Senate Standing of the transport and of the Communications ( she of the staff ) , presented to the Senate the 15 December 99 . - ( - hon. Senator Bacon ) .
the hon. Lise Bacon :
honourable senators , I move the Adopted of this report .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , you pleasure - he of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed and the report is adopted . )
the Ontario
the bill of bill on the restructuring regional - - refusal of to Ottawa officially bilingual - Inquiry - Suspended of the debate
the order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the inquiry of the hon. Senator Poulin , calling the attention of the Senate on the decision of the government of the Ontario of not not adopt a recommendation to to to of Ottawa a city bilingual after his restructuring proposed . - (
the hon. Senator Fraser ) .
the hon. Joan Fraser :
honourable senators , when I rise the speak here to the House , I trying in General of use the two languages official .
today today however , I me exprimerai in English only for insist my Senators to the of all those who exhortent the government of the Ontario to adopt a bill before that the new great city of Ottawa will officially bilingual .
I me adresserai to you in English only because that I believe that he is important of recognize that this is a question who with all the Canadians , the English , the francophones , those that we lifelong to the Quebec the proportionate and the aboriginal , that they speak the two languages official or only a or even no of the two .
he there has good number of reasons for which the city of Ottawa , and not only the region of the capital national who is to the government federal , should be officially bilingual .
the first , who the at to the plan human , this is that a great number of francophones there live , 125 . I believe .
I know this that that means of see the own government hesitate to recognize the legitimacy of his community linguistic , the right to be no to on full for this that it is , this is - to - say a attribut of a of the Peoples founding of this country .
I know this that that means of hear the government provincial say someone something of the such " Regardez as we you people well .
you invitations be grateful for all these good things that we do for you .
not are particularly not to be recognized for this that you are .
not you watch not to this that be you would of the rights .
what Appendix in bad - be ?
that fact difficulty , honourable senators .
that you give the Appendix that in you , in your own province , not are not considered as a citizen to on full even if your from have contributed to build this country and that the Constitution from your language as the a of the two languages official of the country .
honourable senators , we know all that , since a generation , the governments beneficial successive , there including the government present , have worked of the efforts panels for to on at and to a broader range of services of language French and for help the francophones to build and to control their institutions community essential .
well that we regrettions can - be all profoundly the situation to the Health fought and that we espérions can - be , as I the am , that it will resolved of way satisfactorily , he is also important of recognize that the government summer present has took the initiative of give to the francophones the control of the schools French .
this not is not nothing .
I in so tribute to the government of the Ontario .
we understand all that we done here , to the Parliament federal and that , to the Canada , the municipalities matters of the jurisdiction of the provinces .
we know that the creation of the mégaville is a case of jurisdiction provincial .
he not there has surely no of between we who the is .
this is also formidable that Ottawa is a case Special .
this is a pay Ontario , certainly , but this not is not a pay as the other , because Ottawa and Ottawa only is the capital national .
the region of the capital national not is not the capital .
this is a region , a great region , created and appropriately as he must , a wonderful recognition geographical of the importance of the capital for all the Canadians ; but Ottawa , the city of Ottawa , is the capital .
, the Canada , we have two languages official .
this is a aspect basic of our history , of our existence as country .
this is a of the pillars of our identity and of our political national .
how the can - he that the capital of the country not should not dawn this fact wonderful ?
what message that does he to the Canadians , not only to the francophones but to all the Canadians , when we say that , even if we have two languages official , only the a of they is really official here , in the capital it - even ?
honourable senators , the spring last , he me has was of of visit Bruxelles , the capital of a country to the taken with of the problems linguistic who relèguent the how to of the up of children .
I am sure that you know that the Belgium is divided in cantons French and flamands , but , officially , in practice and of by his laws , Bruxelles is a city bilingual .
he should in be and and we should we in sustains .
of such would that , if we insist for that the city of Ottawa be bilingual , we must also insist for that the of Hull the be also .
that raises a problem of resort provincial .
in as that Québécoise of language English , I then wish uphill that the government of the Quebec would to Hull the status official of city bilingual , as he the has fact for of other municipalities , there including the where I ahead .
but that not with in nothing the city of Ottawa .
I am sure , honourable senators , that we have all was delighted of learn that the pay of Ottawa has asked to the government of the Ontario of recognize to this nephew - city the status of city bilingual .
I believe know that only the government provincial can recognize this status to a pay Ontario .
he there has had of the precedents before the courts to this effect .
we know that some as opposed a resistance to this legislation .
any the resistance active which I am to the aware just of English , and a great part of this resistance seems the express by the fear , a fear of the consequences that the status bilingual of the capital national could have for the English who live to Ottawa .
well course , many of people are the change and sometimes , this fear is valid ; however , a little of change is positive .
a little of change allows of build a future better for our country and for we all , who are so this of in be the citizens .
we can come to embrasser this change .
I think to my parents , of the English of the Nova - Nova , proud of their roots , who remontaient to 200 years in our country .
they not have never spoke French .
as that I far , no of their from not spoke French , the gaélique , yes , but not the French .
when my parents were young , the question of the bilingualism and of the Bilingualism not pointait even not to the year .
in the years 60 , when the Canada English has finally including this part of the history , of the identity and of the future of our country , my parents have was among the million of Canadians English to the understand them also and to the outlining of the identity bilingual and biculturelle of our country .
they not have not learned the French , but they have fact in so that I the apprenne , because they thought that all the Canadians who in had the possible should speak the two languages of the Canada .
they were proud that I one learned the French .
I their am éternellement grateful of me in have offered the possible .
why have of the flag , by example , if the symbolisme not is not important ?
the symbolisme is a something extremely important for we all .
and where is - this more important that in the capital of the country ?
finally , I suggestion that if Ottawa not is not a city as the other , the Ontario is a province not as the other .
it has always contributed to several of the elements of our identity which we are if proud - the tolerance , the openness of spirit , the balance which we we targuons .
I urge therefore the government of the Ontario , a time still , of assume the role historic of Leader of leadership .
as we the have heard in this chamber today today and the days precedents , be is in are of study very seriously of other Ways for that Ottawa has the status of city bilingual that it deserves , to my notice .
a action in justice is scheduled by our colleague , the hon. Senator Joyal , without doubt the more infatigable advocate of the rights of the minorities that we was .
he is question that the government federal ruined .
the he must in come that , that he in be and , but he would so more better that the government of the Ontario it this that have fact as of his predecessors before him , that he states the leadership and has the role historic who is of the to the proud protector of this that he there has of better to the Canada .
I urge of all my heart the government of the Ontario to to that of the supplications of this House and of as of Canadians .
of the Senators :
hear !
the Hon. the Speaker :
hon. Senator Beaudoin , I must unfortunately you inform that he not rest that a minute before that I leaving the Chair to that we tarred to the Assent Royal .
managed that it will completed , we reprendrons the debate .
honourable senators , the Senate the adjourned now to during in pending the arrived of the very hon. Acting of His Excellency the Gouverneure general .
... French ...
I have the honour of you to know that he has Manual to His Excellency the Gouverneure general of order the by of letters be under his Signet and Manual establish the hon. Antonio Lamer , Justice in Leader of the Court Supreme of the Canada , the Acting , and the constituting of Canada to the behalf of His Excellency , all the actions necessary , to the and of His Excellency .
the Clerk of the Senate give Reading of the commission .
he pleasure to the hon. Acting of His Excellency the Gouverneure general of give the Assent Royal to the bill of bill following :
bill to implementation in implement of the Agreement an between the government of the Canada , the governments of States members of the Agency spatiale European , the government of the Japan , the government of the Federation of Russia and the government of the States - United of America on the cooperation Current to the Station spatiale international civil and Dolly of the changes other to of other laws , ( an of bill C - 4 , Chapter 35 , 99 )
the hon. Gilbert chairpersons , Speaker of the House of the Commons , the is then to the hon. Acting of the Gouverneure general in these words :
that he please to Honour Hon. .
the House of the Commons of the Canada has voted some appropriation required for to to the government of defray to the Estimates of the service public .
, the behalf of the House of the Commons , I its to Honour Hon. the bill of bill following :
bill to granting to Majesty Majesty of appropriation for the Administration public federal for the year the ending the 31 March 2000 , ( an of bill C - 21 , Chapter 36 , 99 )
, this bill of bill , I please with Honour Hon. of give the Assent Royal .
he pleasure to the hon. Acting of the Gouverneure general of give the Assent Royal to the bill of bill .
the House of the Commons the withdrew .
he pleasure to the hon. Acting of His Excellency the Gouverneure general of the withdraw .
the Ontario
the bill on the restructuring regional - - refusal of the government summer of adopt the recommendation to to to of Ottawa a city bilingual - Inquiry - Continued of the debate
the order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the inquiry of the hon. Senator Poulin , calling the attention of the Senate on the decision of the government of the Ontario of not not adopt a recommendation to to to of Ottawa a city bilingual after his restructuring proposed . - (
the hon. Senator Fraser ) .
the hon. é - A .
honourable senators , the Canada is a federation bilingual and originators , and that the recognize our various laws Constitutional of 1867 to our days .
he is in the order of the things that the capital of this country be also bilingual .
several States federal have a capital bilingual , even even multilingue .
he is exactly that to the words of the Constitution Canadian , the municipalities matters of the jurisdiction provincial , that the paragraph 92 ( 8 ) of the Act constitutional of 1867 .
this is say that the structures and the powers of a board City are the attribut of the provinces .
be must respect the sharing of the powers .
however , Ottawa not is not a city as the other , this is the capital of the Canada .
and to the heart of this country , the major institutions federal are bilingual : the Parliament federal , the Court Supreme of the Canada , magnificent Hall and the departments .
a section of the Constitution of the Canada , the section 16 , with of the capital of the Canada and unless that the seat of the government federal is to Ottawa .
in the v. Munro of 1966 , the Court Supreme of the Canada has recognized that the Parliament federal can legislation on the capital national in under of his jurisdiction résiduelle in under of the clause : peace , order and good government .
in this case , the Court Supreme has recognized that the Parliament federal can create a region of the capital national , tough a Board of the capital national and habiliter this commission to loading of the settlements for the embellissement of the capital national .
this Board of the capital national is Before to the Act on the languages official since it is a body created by a bill federal .
the bill federal on the languages official , who highlights on a at of equality the use of the language English and of the language French in the institutions federal , based on the jurisdiction résiduelle of the Parliament Canadian , as the has establishes the v. Jones of 1975 , a judgment unanimous of our more senior court .
the part VII of the Act on the languages official allows a some extension of the bilingualism and has more that a value déclaratoire in right , it has a value required .
he there has therefore , that the Constitution , a sure sharing of the powers in the field who we concern .
the section 16 of the Act constitutional of 1867 has was been libéralement and , to my notice , be must continue to the to .
some legal have already examined the question of a real District federal , as to Washington and several other capitales federal .
they have examined the question of a capital on the two settle of the River , and also the question of a District federal on the two settle .
I not to not open this debate today today , because he not is not now before we .
this who is before we , however , this is the question of a capital bilingual , or more or least .
this is already many .
my colleague , the Senator Serge Joyal , has invoqué , to the support of the pleas in favour of a capital bilingual , the principles identified by the Court Supreme in the referred on the Stinson of the Quebec , for encadrer the negotiations between the Quebec and the Canada or between a province and the Canada , this is - to - say the constitutionnalisme , the democracy , the rule of right , the respect of the rights of the minorities and the federalism .
if be can point these principle to the opportunity of a Stinson , they can certainly be prevailing for the renewal of the federalism .
I end my statement legal on the remarks of the Justice Cartwright , in the v. Munro , in which this jurist invoquait the theory of the interest national :
I can to imagine the subject of a legislation legislative who today more clear the interests local or provincial and who interest more the Canada in the together that , of the development , of the legislation and of the improvement of the region of the capital national .
the Justice Jean Beetz , in the referred on the Act anti - inflation of 1976 , wrote that :
be will without doubt that he there has a difference between the capital and the region of the capital .
I conclude that the capital of our country the must of be bilingual .
of the Senators :
hear !
the hon. Serge Joyal :
honourable senators , I have listened with many of interest the statement of the Senator Beaudoin .
I like to to the attention a distinction on the with regarding the part VII of the Act on the languages official that the Committee on the languages official has had the opportunity of study .
the Senator Gauthier , this week , me transmettait a information on the nature specific of the partieVII.
you have supported that the part VII had a uniqueness order , and not only déclaratoire .
now , a because in Court federal is specifically the nature of the uniqueness déclaratoire of the part VII of the Act on the languages official .
as it not is not couverte by the sections of the bill who deal of the use judicial possible , this part of the bill 730 to the review and to the order of the courts Canadian .
I not am not of this notice in the context of as of the Court Supreme on the Stinson of the Quebec .
this question has was raised by the Senator Gauthier by her the Speaker good tempore to as of co of the Committee on the languages official .
this question fact now the subject of a debate before the courts .
, the time where be in what to the step of the plaidoiries , the arguments développés by the Court Superior of the Ontario , in the because of the Health fought , will their exercise for the Court federal who will to the deal of way to tidy a time for all the application real of the part VII of the Act on the languages official .
as you the know , it would of a so importance for define the responsibility of the government Canadian to the regard of the role of promotion active to the support of the minorities of languages official English or French .
I wanted to to the attention of the hon. Senator this part important that the senators Gauthier and Cool - Losier have has in their trade to the about of the business of this Committee .
the Senator Beaudoin :
honourable senators , in the further , we wish the even something .
if this is challenged , be hope that this will rejected and that be will to the part VII of the Act on the languages official a value not simply déclaratoire , but also impérative .
that me remind always the " v. on the section 133 , in which a court supply had said that the use of the French and of the English was indicatif and not imperative .
the Court Supreme , in a decision of 9 to 0 , had corrected the become in saying that : when the Constitution about of way clear and specific , this is imperative .
we we battons all for the even result .
this is challenged , but this is our regime .
be can to point of the arguments very strong for argue that this Act on the languages official has a uniqueness imperative to the partieVII.
he must try of to point our arguments to the court .
the hon. Ione Christensen :
honourable senators , this is in as that CIBC unilingual that I rise in the debate on the decision of the government of the Ontario of not not give on to a recommendation to to to region bilingual the city restructured of Ottawa .
from of the s of the Canada located the more to the Western , I is futile the idea even of to this debate .
the capital of the Canada not can that be bilingual .
the Canada and the bilingualism are seldom ; they not are that a .
since 1898 , the Yukon has a community French very active and proud .
today today , his members are represented by the Association French yukonnaise .
he there has a school French and the rate of fréquentation of the programs of immersion in French in our system of education is very high .
of the Canadians of across are came to the Yukon for that their children learn and shared this great culture bilingual .
the question not is or of a pay , or of a province or of a jurisdiction tax .
this is a question of unity .
the reaction of the province contiguë to the who that the more strong public of Canadians francophones is incredibly unresponsive .
this not was not necessary .
Ottawa , our capital national , should dawn our duality and we not can accept nothing of least .
the hon. Marcel homme man :
honourable senators , he there has had a agreement .
the recommendations of the Board Royal on the Peoples aboriginal relatively to the service government aboriginal
Adopted of the report of the Committee of the Peoples aboriginal
leave to was granted of to to the reports of Committee :
the Senate on to the study of the second report of the Committee Senate Standing of the Peoples aboriginal ( she of staff ) presented to the Senate the 15 December 99 . - ( - hon. Senator Watt ) .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) move the Adopted of the report .
( the motion is agreed , and the report is adopted . )
Affairs Social , Science and Technology
Authorized to the Committee of to the of of the system of health
the order of the day Order :
resuming of the debate on the motion of the hon. Senator Kirby , seconded by the hon. Senator MLA :
that the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology be authorized to to for in to report the of of the system of health to the Canada .
more particularly , that the Committee be authorized to to :
has ) - principles basic on which is based the system public of health to the Canada ;
b ) - historic of the system of health to the Canada ;
c ) - systems of health public in of other country ;
d ) - system of health to the Canada - pressure and on ;
e ) - role of the government federal in the system of health to the Canada ;
that the Committee its the report final to the more later the 14 December 2001 ; and
that the Committee be authorized , by derogation to the rules usuelles , to table all report with of the Clerk of the Senate if the Senate not seat not to this time - that ; and that the report be being have was tabled to the House of the Senate . - (
the hon. Senator Di Nino ) .
the hon. Marjory LeBreton :
honourable senators , to as of vice - chairman of the Committee Senate Standing of the Affairs Social , of the Science and of the Technology , I like comment briefly the motion .
he not is not indifférent that the few the words who will given to the Senate for this millennium them on this about .
that directly to point appointed , because , to the enter of the new millennium , we will the Authorized of the Senate for study the of of the services of health to the Canada and in to report .
this study the is of emergency , and the Senate is particularly well put for throughout this study , if be the with to the Commons , where of other factors bother often this type of work .
honourable senators , as all the other members of the Committee , I support this initiative .
the question deserves a study serious .
he there has many of ideas false répandues to the about of the services of health to the Canada .
we must to opposite to of many realities .
we must we question on the role of the government federal and the means to take for to the system economically viable .
I ask respectfully the Authorized of to this study .
the Hon. the Speaker good tempore :
there has he of other senators who wish take the speak ?
the hon. Michael Kirby :
honourable senators , I me in tiendrai to two brief comments .
all of first , to the light of the debates who have had place to the Senate the week last on the costs of the study , I was that the Committee not is not of spending more of 10 . $ of here to the 31 March 2000 .
then , for this who with the next year , this not will not a study angry little , because we we propose of to the most of our comparaisons international to the way of visioconférences who , as has could the see the Committee of the Banking , working extremely well .
even if the framework of as is broader , I not me am not to this that this study be angry little .
finally , honourable senators , I wish to to a observation on the way which we hope manage this study .
I believe that the Senator Carstairs , in about of the way which the Committee has treaty the bill of bill C - 6 , has fact out that , rigoureusement about , our Committee steering the up of two Liberal and of a Conservative .
of the even manner , when the Committee steering has began to establish the framework of as of this study , we have asked to the Senator Keon of the join to we .
the Senator Keon has could we help to establish the mandate in question and we has of of the ideas on the way of deal that .
, the first hour , this morning , I him have wrote that I is important that he continues of play a role in this study .
of the Senators :
hear !
the Senator Kirby :
as for the bill of bill C - 6 , we fonctionnerons with a Committee steering composed of four people , be the senators Carstairs and I - even , of this side - this , and the senators LeBreton and Keon , of the other .
I hope that the senators essaieront of we ensure the know - to of the Senator Keon to the over of the two next years that will this study .
honourable senators , this are that the comments that I wanted to .
I have found , in me entretenant with of the senators of the two sides , that this study raises a interest considerable .
the Hon. the Speaker good tempore :
you pleasure - he , honourable senators , of adopt the motion ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
Affairs foreign
Authorized to the Committee of until the date of the Tabled of the report final on the study of the amendment made to the mandate of the Organization of the Treaty of the Atlantic North
the hon. Peter A . Stollery , pursuant to the notice du9 December 99 , move :
that the Committee divested the powers necessary to the Electronic of the results of the study contained in the report final , and this until to the 31 March 2000 ; and
that the Committee be authorized , notwithstanding the practices considered , to table the report with of the Clerk of the Senate , if the Senate not seat not , and that obedience report be being have was tabled to the Senate .
( the motion is agreed . )
the recommendations of the Board Royal on the Peoples aboriginal relatively to the service government
Authorized given to the Committee of until the Tabled of the report final
the hon. Landon Pearson , to the behalf of the Senator Watt , pursuant to the notice of the 14 December 99 , move :
that , by derogation to the order adopted by the Senate 24 November 99 , the Committee Senate Standing of the Peoples aboriginal be authorized to to a study and to to a report on the recommendations of the Board Royal on the Peoples aboriginal ( Document Parliamentary No. 2 / 35 - 508 . )
relatively to the service government aboriginal and more particularly , to obtain the point of view of the Peoples aboriginal and of the other it on the questions following :
2 . the mechanisms necessary to the ushered of the new relations structurelles ;
3 . the models of self government aboriginal necessary for answer to the needs of the Peoples aboriginal and for concorder with the new relations structurelles ;
that the Committee be authorized to table the report final to the more later the 16 February 2000 , and that the Committee divested the powers necessary to the Electronic of the results of the study contained in the report final , and this until to the 29 February 2000 ; and
that the Committee be authorized , notwithstanding the practices considered , to table the report with of the Clerk of the Senate , if the Senate not seat not , and that obedience report be being have tabled to the Senate .
the motion is agreed .
the Senate
the granting of a status bilingual to the city of Ottawa - Adopted of the motion
the hon. Jean - Robert Gauthier , pursuant to the notice of the 15 December 99 , move :
that , of the notice of the Senate of the Canada , Ottawa , the capital of the Canada should be officially bilingual .
I hope that this debate continue of be objectively .
in the Constitution of this country , these two languages have equality of status and of privileges .
this motion ask to the province of the Ontario of to the new quoted of Ottawa officially bilingual .
the word " official " - if be the Senator to a dictionnaire - to say :
... ... ... who émane of a authority no , had deviants , Cabinet , ... ... ...
in this who me with , the new quoted of Ottawa must be officially bilingual and and legislation to the two languages official of the country the status of equality , and met of the jurisdiction provincial .
I will me explain .
before - yesterday , to the over of a debate , I have said clear that the province of the Ontario the must of to bilingual the capital national .
many of between you have in to the debate and I you in thank , because that heritage our Position .
Mr. . Shortliffe has of more noted in the report on the restructuring municipale that he would of the resort of the board of the pay of Ottawa of determine the scope and the nature of the services who will available in the two languages official of the country .
he not there has no doubt that a pay of the Ontario can , by regulation , decide of give few services in the two languages official of the country .
a regulation City can change very quickly that the on of the board City , this who not authority not a certainty to the year of the two languages official .
I will in saying that the Senate has always continued the objective of represent the regions of the country and particularly of defend his minorities .
this is for this reason that I am happy today today of see that several of between you have in to this debate and I hope that you be many to support the motion .
honourable senators , I am unborn to Ottawa .
I there have past any my life .
I have of the difficulty to do that the capital of my country not can be that unilingual or , for be honourable , not can not be bilingual .
I ask to my friends of the Senate of support this motion .
the hon. ë A . Kinsella ( Leader Deputy of the Opposition ) :
honourable senators , this is a honour for I of support this motion very important .
I poured that be can understand why a Senator of the Opposition and a Senator of the province of the New - Brunswick must support with conviction this motion .
our province is officially bilingual .
the Senator Nolin :
this is the only .
the Senator Kinsella :
the only province to the Canada to be officially bilingual .
the Senator Louis Robichaud has was a pioneer since he is the author of the first Act on the languages official of our province .
I must also out the work of the Senator Simard , who continues of defend the bilingualism in our province .
then , for we , Nova - Brunswickois , he is logical that the capital of our country be bilingual .
this is by principle and by duty , and in as that Senator of the New - Brunswick , that I underscored and that I support this motion .
the hon. Marcel homme man :
honourable senators , all those who are my long friendship for the Senator Gauthier know very well that I not could not stay silent .
I will therefore me join without was to this that the Senator Kinsella and Gauthier have said .
not not that I not me sente not to the comfortable in the other language official .
I working in this language all the days since that I am came in the other House and still , if I not had not the Senator Rossiter and few other to the opportunity for correct my English , you verriez that I in have still many to learn .
I me am always considered as the Deputy of the Senator Gauthier .
this was a trick that some not appreciation not , but I not have never had shame of say that in all his concerns , I the appuyais .
this is him who me has open the doors , to across the Canada , of all the minority who the entirely of the survivance of the fact French to the Canada .
he me has sent all his contacts , that this be in British - British , in Alberta and even in the provinces a little more récalcitrantes .
honourable senators , he is very easy of affected for the to popular .
my opposite - to - opposite who me have known of the other side know that I can defend a opinion with passion , what that be the side where I seat .
I could be very popular with of a group of Canadians but , in even time , exposing those who not are not of agreed with I .
this is too easy .
I the have fact in your province , Honour Hon. , in the years 1960 , when I have took the speak before the Daughters of the Eastern Star , who me had of first rejected as at .
I was supposed would the good wish Mr. Pearson , who was go to Ottawa .
rather that of return to Quebec and exposing those who me had rejected , I am went directly in they , in by that I not had not received their message .
know - you how of her I me am made in the Daughters of the Eastern Star ?
more often that other , I have was épinglé for my opinions political on of other issues .
I not have never chosen the seaway of the facility , who is to exposing .
he there in has who would almost loans to you assassiner in reason of your opinions political on some issues .
even to a age carried as the hall , I continues to hope that I réussirai to in to change of other of opinion .
the half of between them not the were never it to the policy .
the half of between them the Torontonians very tristes in reason of the process and not shared not the opinions political that we have here .
however , after least of a half - hour of patientes explanation , they want now to for see the honourable senators to the work because that they have seen the members of the House of the Commons more earlier today today .
I favourite my Senators to the of the Senator Kinsella and thank our friend , the great champion .
this not is not easy of be champion in Ontario , as this not the is not in of other provinces .
this is the reason for which I for the Senator Kinsella .
he not has not afraid of express the point of view .
I could appoint all the other , but I will me alone because that I in oublierais .
I refers the Senator Kinsella because that he the is by and I the in thank .
I him relates any my friendship and in all time , he me will to his sides for the good because , this is - to - say the because Canadian , but the because Canadian well misunderstood .
certainly , be can although the world in vantant the been of the Canada , but in rentrant to the country he not must forget the about that be has held .
I just all fair of go of the Pakistan and of other be .
they see in the Canada of the things that the Canadians have of the difficulty to see .
you not can not you adjourn freely to the outside of well of the country as be the fact to the Canada , then go to the country and refuse of work for the democracy .
this is a country constantly in seaway of too .
that require of the patience .
he must sometimes the keep of be vengeance , as some of between we the are .
honourable senators , each of we has a duty .
we should we réengager to the service of the Canada .
he suffice for that that per senators taking on to 10 events each year for defend the Canada and explain this that to say be Canadian .
this is this that the Senator Gauthier trying of to and this is also this that I trying of to , to my way .
the hon. Norman K . Atkins :
honourable senators , I wish to congratulate the Senator Gauthier for his motion .
I is that he is that that the last section recorded to the Paper has with to this question .
in as that Senator summer who not is not bilingual - and I in am sorry - , I can hope that this motion will agreed to the unanimously .
of the Senators :
hear !
the hon. Bill Rompkey :
honourable senators , I rise to about of this motion , and that , for two major reasons .
first , I wish to support the Senator Gauthier .
the Senator Gauthier and I have was elected all two in 1972 .
I wish simply to support my colleague , the last Parliamentary of the promotion 1972 .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , I am sorry of you interrupt , but he is 18 p.m. .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I move of not not see the hour .
the Hon. the Speaker :
is - you of agreed , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator Rompkey :
I not have not the intention of clerical the Senate , but I like say few words .
I wish saluting the Senator Gauthier for the courage staff and policy that he has shown today today .
if I have asked to take the speak , this is also to the on of the comments made by the Senator Fraser to a other opportunity and , .
it has said that the question not we not exclusively the francophones , that it assembly rather a interest national .
in as that Newfoundland - Newfoundlander , I am part of a group of Canadians newly upon , since we not have fact our into in the Confederation Canadian that in 1949 .
in as that English unilingues , we have should to the learning of the Canada .
we are still many to not not speak the French .
in fact , some of between we not speak even not the English if well that that .
we about the language of Shakespeare .
I see the Senator Cochrane who me fact of the remontrances .
I like simply say that on my Island and to the Labrador , we about a language who has seen the day to the time of Shakespeare , to the 16 century , and who not has not many ground since .
we not seek not to we justify .
this are the other who have changed the language English , not we .
the status linguistic of Ottawa not is case or of francophones , or of English .
this is a case national .
I am in favour of a capital bilingual , because Ottawa is the capital of the people of the Labrador .
this is the capital of all the Canadians . Et , as such , it should the to the mirrors of the Canada .
this clause is important .
the capital where we are and work all , should dawn the uniqueness bilingual of the country and the culture which we are if proud .
this is why I support this motion , honourable senators .
the hon. Joyce Fairbairn :
honourable senators , I not should not let from this opportunity without join my Senators to the of my colleagues of the two sides of the House for support the motion of my old friend the Senator Jean - Robert Gauthier .
the Senator Gauthier has was ' on land for speak in a time similar .
since the many years that I the know , he the is always fact the advocate of the equity in this city , in this province and in all the country .
, a time as , - this , where we are witnesses of a of of spirit incompréhensible in the capital of the province , he is very happy that we can be on a human to the force of uniqueness and the passion of the Senator Gauthier .
he has of new took the head of the forces of the canadianisme , of the equity and of the equality in this matter .
he is very true that the situation linguistic of Ottawa is a question of interest national .
he is impossible of the to in someone part of the Canada that this be without know that some of the pioneers the more inspirants , also far that you blessed you to to the Western , to the North or to the East , were of the people who there have fact its the language and the culture French .
we are very proud of these pioneers in Alberta but , as the out my friend the Senator homme man , the people are continually for as their culture .
more we we éloignons of the centre , more the fight becomes difficult .
this question is a report of battle .
I am proud of support my colleague , the Senator Gauthier , on this question .
of the citizens of St. - Paul , of Biche Position Biche , of Morinville and St. Albert looking this who the on to the Parliament on this question , to of know the they are always of the Canadians to on full .
well course that they the are !
Senator Gauthier , I you thank .
, all the honourable senators , I say that this is a great time to the Senate when we can all support a question also fundamental that the - this for our country .
of the Senators :
hear !
the hon. Sharon Carstairs :
honourable senators , in 1905 , after the birth of the 10 - seventeenth child , my great - mother , Sophie Leblanc Martel , has left the small village of fishermen of the Cape - Cape for go the establish to Boston , to the Massachusetts .
when it is arrived that - there , it has said to his children that they not were more speak French , that they Cree now in a country English and that they were learn to speak English .
my mother , 10 - eighteenth child of the family and the pediatrician , is born two years more later .
it not has never heard my great - mother speak French , except when the - this récitait his prayers .
I think that my great - mother would very summer of know that his grandchildren - children , of the least some , are income to the Canada , in a country bilingual .
I think that it would of agreed for that the city of Ottawa , the capital of this country , be bilingual .
be me has learned to think that I was Irish , of a side , and American , of the other , until to the day where my mother is arrived to the home with a morceau of vitrail very former , affirms of a fleur of lys .
this morceau of vitrail the is now in my office , in the Édifice of the East .
after the have nettoyé , my mother the has ' on a support , in the salon .
it has then announced to my father that his children not were not only Irish but that they were also Canadians French .
the hon. Francis William Mahovlich :
honourable senators , in 1972 , when the Senator Rompkey and the Senator Gauthier have was appointed , I was in Russia with a team of hockey who was bilingual .
we have won a very large success , and 1972 has was a very good year .
I wanted only attention that I am of agreed with this that the Senator Rompkey has said .
the hon. Fernand Robichaud :
honourable senators , I like mean my support to this motion of the Senator Gauthier .
I thought that you tiendriez for learning that I know this motion .
well course that I the am .
be could often to for learning - I think that many of people held for learning - that the capital national the must of be bilingual .
this is often a mistake that we do when we are in situation minority : we we of the things for learning .
the fact that we are to table a motion for ask that the region of the capital national revête this uniqueness bilingual example well that we must always be deliver .
we must encourage the people to respect the two languages official of the country .
this is all to fact without condition and I support do this motion .
the hon. Marie - P .
honourable senators , we insensitive today today what place the Senate ' in our country .
as the twice if well several of our colleagues , he is all to fact appropriate of closing the year 99 , with pride , on a motion of principle unanimous .
the Senate of the Canada represents all the minorities and all the professions , any the diversity cultural and the only of our country .
I have expressed Tuesday last my surprise before the fact that be not wanted not recognize the status bilingual of the capital of the Canada .
few days more later , to the service of the country , in as that legislators representatives the Canadians , we have could we rallier and merged of a even Senators , of a even heart and of a even pride .
all the teams who we support deserve our congratulations .
the hon. Louis J . Robichaud :
honourable senators , as I have was disappointed , almost by , when the government of the Ontario has determined that the capital national not would can - be not bilingual , as I me réjouissais all to the hour of hear the about of my colleagues of Senate who have was offended because that be refuses of to officially bilingual the new city of Ottawa .
the Senator Frank Mahovlich has said all to the hour that in 1972 , a event of importance the is product to the country and to Moscow ; I there was also .
the Canadians have then shown their over in a field who their is sir , the hockey .
a other field also we is sir , the bilingualism .
we item so stop the struggles in we .
we item so not not have to struggle for that the bilingualism be officially recognized .
I not had not the intention of say what that this be .
I was absolutely course that the motion of the Senator Jean - Robert Gauthier , would agreed to the unanimously .
as be the has said , I am the a of the the in this millennium to me express .
I support very clear the bilingualism .
the hon. Aurélien Gill :
the Hon. the Speaker :
if no other Senator not to take the speak , I will proceed .
you pleasure - he of adopt the motion , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Senator Kinsella :
I ask the consent of the honourable senators for that the that - record as that the motion has was agreed to the unanimously .
the Hon. the Speaker :
is - this of agreed , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
( the motion is agreed . )
the v9ux of ë
the hon. Mabel A . DeWare :
, the behalf of the Opposition official , I you thank , Honour Hon. , and that the table to the Board and the pages for the support that you we have made in this wonderful institution where we work .
I wish to Honour Hon. and to the honourable senators of from of joyeuses celebrations and I you offer our best v9ux to the opportunity of the new millennium .
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , I me join to my colleague of in opposite for you wish to all of joyeuses celebrations and you to my best v9ux for the XXle century .
I thank all and each for their cooperation , the support and the good services that they have Regional to our country to the within of this institution .
adjournment
leave to was granted of to to the notice of motion of the government :
the hon. Dan Hays ( Leader Deputy of the government ) :
honourable senators , with the leave of the Senate and notwithstanding the ( 58 ( 1 ) p.m. ) of the Rules , I move :
that , when the Senate the adjourns today today , he remains adjourned until to the Tuesday 8 February 2000 , to 14 p.m. .
the Hon. the Speaker :
the leave is - it granted , honourable senators ?
of the Senators :
of agreed .
the Hon. the Speaker :
honourable senators , before of to the motion to the Senators , I wish I also to thank all the honourable senators and all the staff , of fact all the employees of the Senate , for their excellent support .
I wish to all a very Joyeux ë and a very Bonne Year .
we are a day historic , the last Senate of the year 99 , the last Senate of this millennium .
I offer to all my best v9ux for the new year .
I regret that the Justice in Leader has of the from , because we have sat a little more long that provided , but I hope you on all in my chambers .
( the motion is agreed . )
( the Senate the adjourned to the Tuesday 8 February 2000 , to 14 p.m. . )
